Three Steaks and a Box of Chocolates

The day Burt McCall backfired into Dead End I got my last and most peculiar patient. I’d been standing on the termite-riddled planks of the sidewalk watching dust devils and my sign swinging in the wind. The two customers in the Dry Gulch Saloon hadn’t moved in their chairs all day. For all anyone knew, they could’ve been dead.
Then Burt parked in front of the post office and that got my attention. If he had anyone to write to, no one knew about it. He came out a minute later with a small package. He tossed it into his tow truck and headed across the street to my establishment.
“Why don’t you take that rusty can of yours out of town before you hurt someone?” I said, itching to know what was in the package.
“I ain’t happy to see you, either,” he replied. “But I got something that needs doctorin’.”
I looked him over. From his worn boots to his weathered face, he was none too pretty to look at. But a wealth of silver tumbled from beneath his old hat, and his eyes hadn’t lost their youthful spark.
“You never paid for last time,” I said.
“I’d think you’d want the business.” He stared meaningfully at my sign:
DOC TURNER
HEALING ARTIST
Its groaning in the wind seemed to emphasize his point. Fact was, no one had passed beneath it for quite a spell. I admit I’d tightened my belt a notch or three.
“This better be good,” I said.
Inside my office, he reached into his pocket, pulled out a lump of gold, and slammed it on my desk. “That oughtta cover what I owe. Consider the rest a down payment. You’ll get a whole lot more if you help me.”
“Is it real?”
“Test it yourself.”
I didn’t need to. I’d seen enough nuggets to know the real McCoy from the metal of fools—though, as for fools, Burt might take the cake. He seemed to make a profession of chasing crackpot dreams.
“You didn’t pull this from that sand patch of yours. Who’d you steal it from? That way, I’m prepared when they come after me for it.”
“Now that plain hurts, Doc. I’ve been tellin’ you all along there’s gold there, and there’s the proof. Just like I told you there’s water.”
“The day you find water I eat my boots.”
“Then you better put a fire under the pot so you can cook ’em when you get back. You gonna help me or not?”
I rose, put on my hat, and grabbed my medicine bag. Business had dried up since the new doctor set up down in Black Rock. He was young and knew how to charm the ladies. I’m past my prime on that score and maybe behind the times in doctoring. I figured Burt’s gold would cover me for six months. Mainly, I wanted something to do besides watching dust devils. If anything else was happening in Dead End, nobody told me about it.
“Well, what do you need me for?” I asked.
“Fluffy ain’t feelin’ good.”
“You want me to drive all the way over to your dump in this heat for a cat? Anyway, you don’t like cats.”
He gave me a sly smile. “I don’t. Fluffy’s special.”
I let that slide. “What’s wrong with her?”
“I think she’s got a toothache.” He was looking at a photo on my wall, me standing beside a sleeping elephant, a red-and-white big top in the background. “You sure you didn’t kill that elephant?”
“Couldn’t. He was the circus’s prize possession. But he went berserk when they sold his lady friend. Elephants are loyal that way. I used something that would drop a dinosaur and they paid me well for it.” I was feeling a little sad thinking about it. It was probably the last good bit of coin I’d seen. If things didn’t turn around soon, I’d have to close shop. The thought of moving at my age didn’t appeal to my bones, which were about as shaky as Burt’s truck.
“You still got that tranquilizer?”
“Probably somewhere.”
“Get it. Fluffy doesn’t like pain.”
I squinted at him like he was a crazy man, which he probably was. That didn’t matter. He wouldn’t drive clear to Dead End unless he needed to. Something was afoot, and I aimed to find out what. I threw some hypos and elephant tranquilizer into my bag. We piled into his truck and started bouncing down the road, sending up clouds of dirt.
I hung on for fear of falling out. “If you’d brush that cat’s teeth, it wouldn’t have a toothache.”
“I never heard of such a thing.” He grinned with those yellow teeth of his.
“Tackling your own once a week might not be a bad idea either.”
He came to a sudden stop in front of Newsom’s Hardware. “Fine.”
He hopped out and a minute later returned with a push broom and a crowbar.
“What’s that for?”
“An ounce of prevention.”
How many times the engine exploded no one would want to find out, but an hour later his mountain came into view. As the story goes, a bespectacled gent named Norman Fable from one of those big universities back east inspected it for a mining company. He declared it a likely place to find gold or silver. Everyone and their uncle descended on the place. For two decades they punched holes all over it and found zip. Now most people call it Fable Mountain. It seems a respectable way to immortalize the man.
The Indians round here call it Awanyu, after their serpent god. They got it right. From this side, it looked like a snake stretched out on the floor of the desert, the east peak its head, the west peak an eroded cliff that curved up like a tail.
Miles passed with nothing but cactuses, the sweat on the back of your neck, and horse flies the size of buffaloes. Burt was by himself out here. A lonely feeling settled into my bones.
His lean-to came into view, stuck against the base of the mountain. There wasn’t a well in sight.
“How do you survive out here without water?”
He gave me that sidelong look again. “I got water.”
“You old fibber. The only water is floating around your brain.”
“Well, you can add your hat to your boots. Looks like you’re losin’ weight, anyway.”
“I mean it, Burt. How do you get by?” Fact was, I cared about him.
He pointed to a clay disk with painted triangles and spirals hanging from his rearview mirror. “Amulets.”
“You can’t get by on luck.”
“It ain’t luck. It’s magic. That’s what Indian Bob says. He ought to know.”
“If that’s from Indian Bob you got swindled. He’s no more Indian than you are.”
“Not so, I’m two-thirds Hopi and two-thirds Chippewa.”
“Where do the McCalls fit in?”
“The lost tribe. You can’t count ’em.”
I didn’t want to argue. He was rather sensitive on the subject, and told all kinds of tales about giant bears, birds, and skunks, and rolling heads that gobbled up bad people. He swore he’d seen them hereabouts, but then again, he’d claimed he’d seen a sea serpent in his navy days. Said it would bring him luck one day.
He pulled up to the lean-to and took up his package and the broom and crowbar he’d bought at Newsom’s. I followed him inside, hoping it would be cooler. The concept of shade didn’t seem to apply there, and sweat was rolling down my face. He offered me a pull from a canteen. I expected the water to be dusty. It was surprisingly cold and sweet.
He watched me drink. “Don’t be bashful. There’s plenty where that came from.”
I didn’t need a second invitation and poured half of it down my shirt. When the last drop trickled down my throat, I looked at him guiltily. “Sorry, I should’ve left you some.”
He shrugged. “Take it, we’ll refill it.”
I looked around, trying to figure this out. No well outside. Not even a water tank. An old wood-burning stove sat in one corner, a narrow cot in the other. An iron skillet, a Dutch oven, and a big spoon hung from the ceiling. A buffalo hide was nailed to one wall, probably to cover gaps in the planks that bands of light streamed through. More amulets were scattered about, long feathers, beads, bits of carved turquoise, dreamcatchers. If he was finding his dreams, I couldn’t see it.
The front of the room was as clean as any bachelor’s, but toward the rear, a layer of dirt covered the floor. A curtain hung over the back wall. It stirred, though no wind came through the open windows.
He lit a lantern and gave it to me. Smiling to himself, he put the package in a knapsack, slung it over his shoulder, and took up the broom and crowbar.
With my medicine bag in one hand and the lantern in the other, I followed him to the curtain, wondering what all this was leading to. He parted the curtain. More dirt was piled to the left and right but dead ahead the wall had been torn away, revealing an opening large enough to step through.
Inside, the temperature dropped. At first, I thought this was a mineshaft from the Fable days, but the walls were rocky and irregular, suggesting it was a cave. I turned to look back at the dirt piled near the opening. It looked fresh.
“How’d you know to dig here?” I asked.
“I did a sweat with Indian Bob and had a vision. It showed me the spot.”
The passage angled down. Cool air wafted from below. As pleasant as it was to get out of the heat, that forlorn feeling settled on me hard.
“Why do you live like this, Burt?”
His eyes were flames in the glow of the lantern. “Like what?”
“Alone. This place makes Dead End seem crowded.”
“I’m not alone. I got Fluffy.”
That didn’t reassure me.
Neither of us spoke for a spell. He probably figured I’d run the other way if he said more. All I could do was see how this played out.
Finally he said, “If you found somethin’ valuable, would you share it?”
I considered. If I wanted to be a Rockefeller, I’d have taken a different road. “Sure would. Guess I don’t need much.”
“That’s what I figured. And we’re friends, right? I can trust you?”
“I’d have to be to go along with whatever you’re brewing here.”
“Figured that too. That’s why I came to you and not that fake in Black Rock.” He wiped his eyes, which had grown misty. “Friendship’s a rare thing, Doc.” After a pause, he added, “Love, too.”
A few steps farther the passage opened into a cavern so vast, the lantern couldn’t penetrate the limits of it. What got my heart pounding was the low, rhythmic lapping of waves.
“Well, I’ll be,” I said. “You found water.” And not just a trickle. This was a sea, broad, wide, and gleaming dimly.
Not far away, a deep moan echoed off the walls. I could conjure a lot of things in my mind and nothing to fit that sound. My heart froze.
I swallowed, trying to moisten my throat, which was drier than the Mojave. “Is that what you brought me here for?”
Burt set down the broom and crowbar and walked to the shore. “Yep.”
“What is it?”
“You can decide for yourself.”
I looked behind me, wondering how long it would take to get back to sunshine, where scorpions and hungry coyotes seemed suddenly friendly. “Maybe I don’t want any part of it.”
He turned back to me, hands on his hips. “You took a hippocritic oath.”
“I’m beginning to feel like I did. Did I ever tell you I dropped out of medical school? Why do you think I opened shop in Dead End?”
He came up and put a reassuring hand on my shoulder. “That don’t matter,” he replied. “You can cure the warts off a hog. I’m livin’ proof.”
Small splashes drew near. Something was coming, cutting smoothly in and out of the water.
“Look, Doc, you don’t have anythin’ to worry about. I told you, she’s a pussycat.”
A groan like a sick cow reverberated through the chamber.
“Is that her meow?”
Burt wrung his hands. “She’s in pain. I don’t know what to do for her.”
I waited, holding my breath, listening with dread and fascination as the splashes came on. Then I saw her, emerging from the darkness, first her eyes, shining like coins for a titan, then her brontosaurus head, which seemed to float above the water. A monstrous neck followed. Trailing thirty feet behind, her body looped through the water like a giant hose.
The water must have been deep almost up to the shore. She left her body submerged and dropped her head on a flat rock as a dog that was feeling pathetic and under the weather might.
Burt patted her head and scratched where her ears would be if she were a cat. “This here’s the doctor I told you ’bout.”
She moaned again, but not so loud. Her eyes rolled until they locked on me. They were intelligent and hopeful.
Since she hadn’t snatched Burt in those jaws of hers and dragged him underwater, I approached.
“Why do you think it’s her tooth?” I asked.
“She isn’t eatin’ normal.”
“How do you know?”
“She won’t touch anythin’ I give her.”
“What do you give her, a cow?”
He nodded to the water. “She catches lots of fish there. Three times a week I give her steak and some of these.” He pulled the post-office package from his knapsack and unwrapped it. Inside was a box of Dormel’s chocolates.
“You give her that?”
He gave me a bashful look. “She loves ’em.”
I shook my head, pretty certain what the problem was. “Well, I better have a look. Will she open up and not snap my head off?”
He stroked her nose. “Let Doc have a look and I’ll give you some of the toffee ones.”
I swear she almost smiled at that and her head went up and down in what might have been a nod. She opened wide and displayed a set of nine-inch teeth the like of which haven’t been seen since this planet’s infancy.
I handed Burt the lantern. “If I die, I’ll kill you.”
He held it close while I bent in for a look. Those daggers were pearly white near the top, but a brown deposit had formed on the bottom. One back tooth looked pretty bad. The gum around it was swollen too.
I rose and tapped the chocolate box. “That’s your problem. It’ll rot her teeth in no time.”
“Can you do somethin’ for her?”
“A tooth has to come out.” I rubbed my chin, studying her, trying to figure how to do it. She looked at me, her eyes innocent and trusting. If I hurt her she’d flail and make hamburger out of me with a whip from her tail, though she didn’t mean a lick of harm.
“Thought so. Well, you brought the tranquilizer.”
“That’s not it, Burt. I can’t exactly dig it out.”
“You gotta help me, Doc. I’m lost without her.”
He wasn’t the only one. It dawned on me I’d been lost a long time. Maybe she was the way out. A strange urgency gripped me. I had to do this or I was a goner; I’d blow away like dust.
I looked around and then back the way we came. “How far is it to your cabin?”
“Maybe a hundred fifty feet.”
“How much cable you got on your tow?”
His face lit up. “Two hundred.”
“Let’s prep her. I want her down deep when we do this.”
Burt coaxed her mouth back open. “This is goin’ to hurt a little. You just hold on. Doc’s goin’ to fix you up.”
It might seem questionable to a sane person why I would put my faith in such reassurances, but I’d seen enough of her to risk it. I keep a supply of anesthetic in my bag and started with that, giving her a dozen shots around the tooth. For good measure, I added a few injections of penicillin. Next, I loaded four hypos with elephant tranquilizer. I didn’t bring a gun and wouldn’t have used it if I had. The sound would have scared her. I felt the scales on her throat and found a vein pulsing like a drum. Holding my breath, I stuck one in. She didn’t flinch. Probably wasn’t much more than a fleabite to her.
“Let’s head up,” I said, closing my bag. “Tell her to stay put. If she goes unconscious and slips into the water, she could drown.”
“No sayin’ what she’ll do on drugs.” He handed me the keys to his truck. “You get the cable. I’ll keep an eye on her.”
He had a point about the drugs. I thought I’d better stay in case she had a reaction. What I would do for a creature like her was up for question. They didn’t cover that in medical school.
I glanced at my watch. “Tell you what, let’s see how she does.”
We waited fifteen minutes. Those giant eyes never closed. They did sink to half-mast. That great head of hers lolled on the rock.
“Let’s go,” I said. “We got about forty minutes to do this.”
He squatted before her. “Don’t go nowhere and I’ll give you more of these.” He held up the chocolates.
The dreamy expression on her face got dreamier.
We debated what she was on the way to his truck. Burt thought she was like that creature spotted in ’33 in northern Scotland. Wherever she came from, I was pretty certain she was Awanyu. Stories come from somewhere. If you came right down to it, the Hopis got things right. Maybe Indian Bob had some of their blood after all.
To tell the truth, I was preoccupied with something else. How in the devil was I going to grab on to that tooth? I kept picturing it from all kinds of angles. The tooth broke in each scenario, leaving the root.
By the time we were topside, I thought of something. “Have you got a hand drill with a big bit?”
He found one in the back. The bit was just under an inch. It would have to do.
Burt backed his truck as close to the front door as he could. Using the hydraulic, he fed out both lines, which had swivel hooks attached to chains. He took one. I took the other. On the way back down, I studied the passage walls. I saw no evidence of prospecting. Where had he gotten that nugget?
When I asked, he gave me that sly smile. “Get that tooth out and you’ll see.”
Below, the creature still lolled at the water’s edge. Her eyes hadn’t closed, but the dreamy expression hadn’t worn off, which gave me small comfort. I didn’t know how she would react to what I had in mind or if it would even work.
Burt got her mouth open again. The tooth was conical. Using the drill at the base, I worked away at it, first on one side, then the other, enlarging both holes a little at a time. In my wildest dreams, I never thought I’d have my head so close to a monster’s epiglottis. She was a good girl though and didn’t stir once. Pretty soon the holes were large enough to work the hooks in.
Now came the tricky part. One of us had to go topside and retract the cable. She needed Burt to keep her calm, but she might need me for another shot. We flipped for it.
He went. I stayed.
“Stay put,” he told her before leaving. “No matter what happens, stay put.”
I watched the cable. We’d left some slack, so I’d have some warning. I checked my watch every few minutes. The tranquilizer could wear off anytime. Bless his heart, it didn’t take as long as I’d thought. I’m certain he ran all the way—he cared that much about her.
The cable pulled taut. Her eyes flared. With a cry she yanked her head back and out popped the tooth, as neat as a cork. I’m here to tell you it’s hard to gauge a monster’s expression, but this one seemed relieved.
I thought she might sink back to the rock. Instead, she reared back and dove, her long body flowing into the water.
Burt ran up, panting.
“Sorry,” I said. “She’s gone.”
“She dove?”
I nodded.
He picked up the tooth and turned it in both hands. “She ain’t gone. She’s gettin’ your reward.”
Sure enough, she resurfaced and swam toward us with something gleaming in her mouth. When she reached the shore, she deposited a nugget the size of Kansas. Nearly a foot long, to be more precise.
Since then, I’ve debated with myself about what she was and whether others like her roam the rivers and byways underground. Sometimes I question if the whole thing happened, but the gold fetched a pretty penny, and I’m set up well now. I sold my practice in Dead End to a traveling snake oil salesman and moved to San Francisco, where the fog and ladies are more to my liking. Whatever happens from here on out, I won’t end up beside those two hombres in the Dry Gulch Saloon.
Burt probably has more gold tucked away than me, but he stayed at the knees of Awanyu. I thought with all that water down there he’d license the rights or put in a golf course or something. He steadfastly refuses. To the world, he’s a hermit. I know better. He found his life companion, and that’s all there is to it.
Every now and then I get a letter from him. He tells me he brushes Fluffy’s teeth regularly with the push broom and scores around her gumline with the crowbar. He doesn’t live extravagantly, but pays for weekly deliveries.
I have it on high authority they consist of three steaks and a box of chocolates.

Snapdragon

Ryll’s heart beat an unfamiliar rhythm—happy and exultant—as she raced down the narrow garden path. The edges were overgrown with peonies and thyme all the way to her sanctuary near the healer’s crumbling cottage.
This new feeling would either tear her to pieces or send her flying into the sky like a dragon.
When she reached the old well behind the abandoned cottage, she sank to her knees in the evening shadows. The healer had left before she and her sister had been born, dismissed along with the other men on the manor. Now only Ryll and her twin sister, Chrys, remained, along with three servants who had nowhere else to go. No one would bother her here. No one cared.
She leaned over the few remaining stones that ringed the well and looked into the still water. Five feet across and deeper than anyone could guess, the well had stayed full to the top through all Ryll’s seventeen years. She stared now at the necklace swinging gently around her neck: a tiny rose in solid gold on a delicate silver chain. It was the most exquisite gift she’d ever received.
It was also the only gift. And the cooper’s son Andolph had given it to her.
But why her?
She let her gaze wander over her reflection, knowing exactly what she would see. Sleek black hair swung down past her chin, inches away from tickling the surface of the water. Wary eyes, narrowed even more than usual. The water didn’t reflect their color, but she knew. The servants knew. And Andolph knew.
Most of the villagers tolerated her and her sister, but as daughters of a sorceress, they would always be looked upon with distrust. Especially because of what their mother had done to them.
Rustling on the other side of the well distracted her. A tiny white dragon adjusted its perch on a crimson snapdragon. It watched, curious, tilting its head from side to side as if listening. He’d been watching her quite often the past few weeks.
She smiled. “You don’t mind the color, do you?” The little dragon had chosen a flower the same shade as her eyes.
She’d given up trying to convince herself her eyes were amber or some outlandish shade of purplish-brown. And they were nothing compared to her skin. She might be able to lower her eyes in the village to hide their unnatural color, but she could do nothing to hide the black rose-like thorns protruding from almost every inch of her face, her hands, and her arms. Everywhere.
Thankfully, where her own skin rubbed together, the thorns were more like nettles, and she was immune to their sting. Her mother had experimented with clothing in their early years, and Ryll had learned to fashion long-sleeved dresses from weaver dragon silk, which was almost impenetrable to her thorns when woven tightly and more comfortable than chain mail.
Chrys could wear anything. Her beauty was unmarred. Her skin was smooth and brown, her small eyes clear and black. But her touch was death—their mother had infused her skin with poison. They were both cursed to be untouchable for as long as they stayed together, safe from the dangers of men.
Until now.
Andolph, the boy with the strong hands and large black eyes, had seen Ryll’s imperfections and didn’t care.
“Every thorn needs a rose,” she whispered, repeating his words. They might not be the most poetic, but they were the most beautiful that had ever been said to her.
The little dragon sneezed, or snorted, and the snapdragon swayed under the sudden movement.
She removed the necklace from around her neck and ran the chain across her fingers. The ends snagged on the back of her hand, and she shook her wrist to loosen it. She let her mind wander into traitorous territory for a moment, imagining the healer’s cottage restored, dark-haired children playing in the garden, and a tall young man who smiled when she entered the room.
She stretched out onto her stomach in the grass, elbows propped on the flat stones of the well, pouring the golden rose and silver chain from one hand to the other.
Chrys would scold her. She would order her to lose the necklace, or worse, return it. Their mother would have done the same. Ryll couldn’t betray her sister, even if abandoning her would end the curse, but she longed for . . . something more. A family. A normal life. Andolph was proof that was possible. His interest had grown little by little the past few weeks. It didn’t matter that he’d never shown her any attention before then. She understood his reluctance to approach her.
The dragon sneezed again. Ryll startled and glanced up at it. A stone shifted under her elbow, and the necklace slipped from her fingers into the dark water with a hiss and a blurp.
She plunged her arm in, but it was too late. The golden rose disappeared into the depths, trailing the silver chain behind it like a shooting star. She sat up quickly, the green sleeve of her dress plastered to her arm. Her skin burned hot and cold at the same time as shock and dismay coursed through her. Chrys would rejoice at the accident, but Ryll refused to lose what might be her only chance to have a future with someone.
She took a deep breath and dove into the well head first. The thin dress immediately clung to her legs, hindering her ability to swim deeper, and for the first time ever, she regretted its strength. She floated back to the surface and dragged herself out. The necklace must be on the bottom by now. She pulled the front hem of her skirt through to the back and tied it in a knot around her waist, revealing more of her legs than she ever had before, but she didn’t care. There was no one around to see, anyway.
She dove again, kicking deep into the blackness and cold. If only her unnatural red eyes held the power to see in the dark—her skin crawled to think of sticking her hand into unseen muck and old bones at the bottom of the well.
But she didn’t reach the bottom. She tried a second time and a third, but the water was too deep. She couldn’t hold her breath long enough. The well was too narrow for proper swimming, and it was dark. So dark.
She floated at the edge, blinking water out of her eyes, and sniffed loudly. The tiny dragon fluttered over to a nearby stone and settled beside her hand, placing a paw the size of her pinkie nail on her wrist. She’d never seen such a small dragon up close, and she didn’t recognize his species. White scales, iridescent like mother-of-pearl, overlapped smoothly along his body from his nose to the tip of his tail, reflecting the pinks and oranges of the sunset. He folded soft-furred wings tightly against his sides and looked at her with large blue eyes.
“I’m not giving up.” She nudged the dragon’s paw off her hand, took a deep breath, and sank down into the water. Down and down, stretching her small frame as far as she could, waiting for her toes to hit stone or sand. Mud. Bones. Anything.
How deep was the well? Did it even have a bottom?
She surfaced again, panted, took another breath and dove. Three more times. Or four. She lost count. The little dragon waited for her on the stone each time. Her limbs grew watery. Her chest burned. She took another breath, ready to try again, but her arm slipped on the wet stones, and she dropped down into the water too soon. Spluttering, she surfaced and grasped handfuls of grass and dirt in her effort to reach dry ground. The dragon tugged on her dress, trying uselessly to help her out. She made it halfway and flopped onto her back, legs dangling in the water. The dragon perched on her shoulder and peered into her eyes.
“Just catching my breath.” She coughed and closed her eyes. If she kept them closed, she wouldn’t notice the approaching darkness. Garden and well would be the same inky black.
She sat up, and the dragon fluttered to the ground. Her shoulders drooped, and a tear slipped from her eye, threading its way between the thorns on her cheek. Who was she kidding? She had no energy left to dive again. The necklace was lost.
“Don’t cry, please,” said a voice, too soft and deep and distinctly masculine to be Chrys or any of the servants.
Unless someone was hiding in the bushes, she and the dragon were the only ones around, and dragons didn’t talk.
“Let me help you,” the voice said.
She studied the dragon where he sat on a stone by her knee with a hopeful gleam in his eyes. “Did you say something?”
“Yes. I said I can help you.” His lips stretched and moved carefully around his sharp teeth to form the words. It shouldn’t have been possible, but she was used to seeing impossible in the mirror every day. Being on the receiving end of a curse, no matter how well-intentioned, she recognized one when she saw it.
“Why would you help me?” And how? He was so small.
“You need me.” He stood. Paced from one end of the stone to the other. Sat. “And I would ask for something in return.”
Of course he would.
“You can keep trying yourself,” he said, “but it’s almost dark. I just thought—”
“Okay.” Barely half an hour of light remained, and the moon would rise late tonight. It wouldn’t hurt to let the dragon try, if he thought he could do it; although even if he were able to reach it, the rose itself would be a handful for him, not to mention the chain.
“What do you want?” she said.
“Nothing much.” His soft voice lowered, and she bent her ear close to hear him. “I want a friend. I want to sit with you at your table and eat from your plate, to be your companion during the day, and sleep on your pillow at night.”
She’d never had a friend, but his request, odd as it was, seemed easy enough to grant. “I’ll do what you ask and be your friend if you get the necklace for me.”
The dragon nodded, extended his wings, and slipped soundlessly into the water, his shiny white scales disappearing quickly into the murky depths.
She pulled her knees up and wrapped her arms around them carefully so as not to press the thorns on her legs into the softer nettled skin under her arms. Waiting, she rocked back and forth, listening to the night creatures wake and rustle among the bushes and trees. How long would it take him to swim to the bottom, as small as he was, when she hadn’t been able to reach it herself? Brave little dragon. He’d taken on an impossible task to win her friendship. He deserved that and more whether he succeeded or not.
His white snout broke the surface, and he scrambled to the edge of the well, sopping wings flopping uselessly behind him. He pulled himself onto a stone and shook himself dry.
“You didn’t find it.”
“I think I almost reached the bottom, but these wings got in the way.” He extended them to their full length, which was barely wider than her hand span. “No good for swimming.”
Another tear slipped down her cheek.
He folded his wings tightly against his sides. “I’ll try again.” He darted into the well before she had a chance to reply.
Once again he surfaced without the necklace. He paced, his blue eyes narrowed in a frown. “I can do this,” he muttered. “I have to do this.” Without warning, he flew off straight overhead, circled, and then dove into the well like an arrow, wings firmly tucked to his sides.
She stood and untied her dress from around her waist, shook out the wet folds, and squeezed water from her hair. She waited, shivering in the night air. When had it grown so dark? She had to get home while she could still see the way, but she wouldn’t leave the dragon alone.
Finally, his white scales appeared beneath the surface as he struggled to swim with a silver chain grasped in his fingers. He’d found it!
A tingling excitement spread throughout her body, and she scooped them both out of the water. She laid him gently in the grass, untangled the necklace from his talons, and slipped the chain around her neck.
Chrys would be angry at her for being late to supper, but she didn’t care. She had the necklace. She had Andolph.
She turned and ran as quickly as she dared back through the garden towards the manor.
“Don’t forget your promise.” The dragon’s voice followed her like the whisper of leaves.
He would catch up with her once he’d rested. He could fly, after all, while she had to rely on shaky legs and human eyes.
Candles burned in the windows when she arrived at the manor. She straightened her shoulders and entered through the back door. Only when she’d reached the safety of her room did she realize she’d forgotten to thank her new friend.
She changed quickly for supper, tying her damp hair back with a ribbon and pulling on a faded blue dress. She adjusted the rose at her collarbone and entered the dining room with her head high.
Chrys sat at the head of the table. Her black eyes flashed when she saw the necklace, and her jaw tightened.
Ryll sat across from her, sinking gratefully onto her cushion. She filled her plate and ate in silence as her sister glared at her.
“You went shopping today, I see.” Chrys’s graceful hands lifted her water glass to her lips.
“You know I didn’t.”
“Who gave it to you?”
She swallowed twice before she could answer. “Andolph.”
“Men don’t give gifts like that lightly—it’s a promise of more. What makes you so special that he would give you such a thing? You’ve never spoken to him in your life.”
“How do you know? You hardly ever go into the village.” Chrys was right, though. Ryll had never spoken to Andolph until a few weeks ago when he’d approached her outside the flower shop.
“It’s gaudy and inappropriate. Take it off.”
Ryll wrapped her fingers around the rose protectively, but before she could respond, something banged against the window from the outside.
The dragon.
“What is that?” Chrys asked.
Ryll opened the window.
“Don’t let it in!”
The dragon flew into the room and landed on the back of an empty chair. He glanced from one girl to the other a few times before his gaze settled on Ryll. She took her seat and patted the table next to her plate.
He landed neatly and sat with his tail curled around his feet. “You remembered your promise.”
Chrys gasped.
“Of course I did.” Not sure what he ate, she pushed a sliver of beef and a stalk of asparagus towards his side of the plate.
“What . . . who . . . what are you doing, Ryll? Have you gone mad?”
“I have not. I’ve made a friend. He helped me this evening, and I intend to repay him for his kindness.”
Her sister’s breathing grew louder, and her fingers clenched into fists on the table. “He has to leave. Do you know what you’ve invited into our home?”
She looked her sister in the eyes. “I’m not stupid.” She paused and then said the next words carefully. “And I don’t care.”
“He’s a man. You’ve brought a man into our house, and you will get rid of him immediately.”
“I will not!” Ryll lowered her voice. “He’s my guest, and he may stay as long as he likes.”
Had Chrys been the one with red eyes, they would have suited her well as she glared at the dragon. “Well. Does your guest have a name?”
A name. She’d never asked if he had a name. Surely he had one.
The dragon cleared his throat. “My name is Jorey. Pleased to meet you.”
Chrys sneered. “He’s no different than the one who gave you that necklace, that Randolph.”
“Andolph.”
“Whatever. He couldn’t possibly like you. He’s lying. Men can’t be trusted, and that dragon can’t be trusted. He’s not helping you to be nice.”
The dragon had already told her what he wanted: friendship. An easy enough thing to give when you got it in return. But what did Andolph want? Ryll touched the rose on its silver chain. To give her such a gift, surely he saw their future together.
But how did he know a future was possible? Neither she nor her sister had told anyone how to break their curse, although everyone knew all curses could be broken.
“See,” Chrys said. “You can’t tell me he didn’t ask for something in return for helping you.”
“He did ask for something.”
Her expression turned smug, a silent I-told-you-so. She turned to Jorey. “Just don’t expect her to break your curse for you, lizard.”
“I expect no such thing.” He speared the sliver of beef with his talon and bit into it.
They ate quietly for a few moments.
Chrys couldn’t stay silent. “What did he do to deserve being turned into a puny white dragon?”
Jorey answered as if she’d spoken to him. “I’m a farmer’s son. I did nothing except fall into the path of a sorceress testing her powers. Not everything that happens to people is deserved.” He sliced off a ring of asparagus. “What did you do to deserve your ... condition?”
Ryll put a hand to her mouth. No one ever asked them about their curse. No one. Ever.
Chrys stood abruptly, silky hair swishing around her face as she leaned forward. “I don’t have to answer to a runt dragon-man. Keep out of my sight.” She slammed the door on her way out.
Ryll sighed. “My sister is harmless.” Except for her touch, of course. “Still, I’d stay out of her way, if I were you.”
“I have no interest in your sister.” He fluttered onto her shoulder and grasped a thorn on her neck to steady himself. “But I think there’s more poison in her than what’s on the surface.”
Standing, Ryll made her way to her bedroom. “You don’t know her. She’s looking out for me like she’s always done.”
“She’s looking out for herself. If you find someone to be with, where does that leave her? Alone and defenseless, and that’s not somewhere she wants to be.”
“What do you know about it?”
“I haven’t just watched you the past few weeks. I’ve listened, too. I pick up on things.”
Nosy dragon. What was he doing watching her, anyway? She reached her room and closed the door, locking it behind her out of habit. At least she wouldn’t have to explain things to him. Not that she owed him an explanation, but they were friends now, and she found an unexpected comfort in having someone to talk to.
One of the servants had lit a candle. Ryll lit five more and placed them around the room.
The dragon jumped from her shoulder and glided to the dressing table. “Why does the dark frighten you so much?”
She froze. No one had ever asked her to explain. She’d never spoken about it, not even to Chrys. Images crowded into her mind as if seeking release. “I....”
“It’s okay. You don’t have to tell me, but I’m here if you want to talk.” He crouched on the scored wood, pearly scales shimmering in the candlelight, and looked at her with concern. “Friend, remember?”
She nodded, and the words spilled unbidden from her tongue. “They took our mother away in the middle of the night. They tried to take us, too....” She could still feel the rough gloves on her arms—how they snagged on the thorns. Her sister’s screams. Chrys had managed to touch someone’s skin, and their captors had dropped both of them immediately. The man was sick for months after, and the entire village was ordered to leave them be. They had the one they wanted.
She and Chrys never saw their mother again.
“It was ten years ago. I can still hear their boots in the dark.”
The dragon nestled his head on her hand where it rested on the desk, his tiny face fitting perfectly between the thorns. In less than a day, he’d touched her more than anyone had in years. Maybe ever. Even Andolph had kept his fingers clear when he placed the necklace around her throat.
“I’m sorry,” he said.
“It’s not your fault.”
“I should have helped you sooner. You had to run home in the dark because of my own fear.”
“I don’t understand.”
“I’ve never reached out to anyone before. People mistrust sorcery, but I knew you would understand. That you wouldn’t hate me. I should have spoken to you sooner.”
“I’m glad you spoke when you did.”
His blue eyes blinked rapidly, and he bared his teeth in an attempt at a smile.
She nudged him off her hand and grinned. “Now, I need to get ready for bed, but people keep asking questions.”
He clamped a paw around his snout and gestured in a human-like way for her to proceed.
“Would you mind?” She opened the desk drawer. “I don’t have a privacy screen.”
He hopped in, and she closed it gently.
Quickly, she slipped into a dark green weaver silk nightgown, held up by thin straps at the shoulders, shook her hair loose, and draped the necklace over a bouquet of dried lavender. She opened the drawer, but there was no movement. A knot formed in her throat. Had something squashed him when the drawer closed?
“Jorey?”
He crawled out and balanced on the edge.
She let out a relieved breath. “I thought you’d been hurt.”
“I’m tougher than I look.” He extended his wings to their fullest, bared his teeth, and crouched in a menacing pose.
“That’s cute. I’ll guard my toes.”
He snorted and folded his wings. “No respect for dragons around here,” he mumbled.
“Maybe.” She paused. “But I do respect what you did for me today. Thank you.”
His scales took on a pale pink color, and he dipped his head.
Could dragons blush?
He growled, or cleared his throat. “You still owe me a place on your pillow.”
“Oh, right.” She climbed into the narrow bed, covered in snagged and torn weaver silk, snuggled in, and patted the spot next to her head. “Will this do?”
Jorey flew over and curled up next to her ear. “You don’t snore, do you?”
She chuckled. “I don’t think so, but I’d worry more about being impaled if I were you.” She turned her head to look at him, careful to stay flat on her back. She’d learned the hard way that it was the safest position to sleep in.
“You don’t scare me.” He studied her, his bright blue eyes following the lines of her shoulder and neck, her face. “You don’t have any thorns on your ears.”
She brought a hand up self-consciously.
He touched a spot near her wrist. “Where do the scars come from? This one looks like a burn mark.”
“It’s nothing.” She pulled the sheet up to her neck and slid her arms underneath. “I’ve tried to get rid of the thorns a few times. Burning them, clipping, digging them out. I used to file them down on my hands, but it takes too much effort, and I could still see the black crescents on my skin where they were lying in wait, ready to grow again.”
“Sounds painful.”
You have no idea. If he were anyone else, she would have said it aloud, but he might be the only one who could understand what she’d been through. “It would have been worth it if I could have felt normal in the end.”
He didn’t respond but curled into a ball and wrapped his tail around himself. He looked like a giant pearl resting on her pillow. “There’s no such thing as normal. We all have thorns, but most of us carry them inside where no one can see how they hurt us.”
“I thought you were a farmer’s son, not a philosopher.”
He flashed his dragon smile. “Goodnight, Ryll.”
She couldn’t remember the last time someone had bid her goodnight. “Sleep well, Jorey."
Before the first edge of dawn appeared, Ryll woke to a thump outside her window. She sat bolt upright, heartbeat loud in her ears.
Jorey was gone.
The door was closed, still locked from the inside.
The curtains fluttered.
She ran to the window and looked outside. Silver moonlight shone on a short, hooded figure retreating towards the front of the manor. She clamored over the windowsill, landing hard on her feet, and took off after the thief. No, the kidnapper.
Resisting the urge to scream, she barreled into the cloaked figure from behind, knocking them both to the ground. She rolled off quickly, hoping she hadn’t harmed Jorey.
“Let him go,” she said, panting.
“Mercy, miss.” The woman held her arms in front of her face. “You can have it, just don’t hurt me.” She pulled out a burlap pouch from a fold of her cloak and held it at arm’s length, refusing to look at Ryll’s face.
She snatched the pouch. No need to see the woman’s features to know who it was. “Tell your mistress to leave my friend alone.” How dare Chrys send her own maid to kidnap Jorey. Did she think Ryll wouldn’t guess? No one else knew he was here. No one else cared.
“Yes, miss. Thank you, miss.” She stumbled backwards on her hands and feet and then righted herself and ran off into the woods.
“Jorey?” She untied the string and stretched out the opening of the pouch.
He emerged up to his shoulders, panting, and drooped over her finger. Wild blue eyes looked up into hers. “You came after me. In the dark.”
She glanced at the curtained windows of the manor, the shadowed bushes and black sky, and pressed her arms tightly against her sides. “Yeah, I guess I did.”
He climbed onto her hand and made his way up her bare arm, using the thorns as handholds and twitching his wings free when they snagged. When he reached her shoulder, he sat down with a small sigh. “Thank you.”
She crushed the pouch in her hand and returned to her room.
Jorey would travel with her to the village in the morning. She spent the last hour before dawn curled up on the bed with the dragon cupped in her hand. He’d fallen asleep within minutes, clearly exhausted, and his snore filled the air like the soft buzzing of a bee.
She kept watch until the acrid smoke of the burnt-out candles woke him.
His nose twitched and he stretched each limb while his eyes remained closed, his wings flopping over the sides of her hand. One eye opened. “Good morning.”
Her lips curled up in response. She would have to get used to smiling if he stayed around, although, he hadn’t said how long that would be. Her smile faded. They were friends now, so even if he left, he would surely return. Wouldn’t he?
“What’s wrong?”
“Oh, nothing.” She carried him to the desk, and he obligingly hopped into the drawer. “I’m just thinking of the best way to take you into the village with me.” She closed the drawer.
“You want me with you?” he said, his voice muffled through the wood.
“Of course, I do, especially after last night.” She would give Chrys a personal warning when she saw her at supper. “I can’t lose you like that.”
The golden rose went around her neck first. Her skin tingled at the thought of seeing Andolph again. Goosebumps raced up her arms, and the thorns shivered in response. She pulled on a sleeveless dress in deep plum and cinched it with a wide leather belt, looping the pouch string through the buckle. She’d decided it was the best way for Jorey to travel. He was too small to fly the whole way, and he couldn’t travel far on her shoulder. If he lost his balance, he could stab himself on a thorn.
She opened the drawer as she ran a comb through her hair. “Ready?”
He blinked up at her. “Wow. You look amazing.”
The comb clattered to the floor.
“That color is good on you.”
She had no words.
“Ryll? You’ll let the flies in.”
Her mouth snapped shut, and she cleared her throat. She tried to imagine Andolph saying those words to her after the curse was broken, but it would never feel the same as hearing it right now for the first time, with her red eyes and her skin covered in black thorns and scars.
“We should go.” She held the pouch open. “I’ll leave the strings loose.”
“Right.” He fluttered over and settled himself inside. “You do know I have wings.”
“Use them whenever you want, but it’s a fair distance. I thought you might like to ride.”
“I’m not complaining.”
Jorey bounced around in the pouch most of the walk, and they chatted about the scenery and how it differed from his home in the north. They passed a few farmhouses and a few fellow travelers on the road. No one spoke to them.
“We’re going to see your ... friend, aren’t we?”
“You’re my friend. I’m still not sure what Andolph is. More, I hope.”
“With a gift like that around your neck, I would say so.” He paused. “Is he a good man?”
“He’s well-liked and a hard worker. The girls can’t keep their eyes off him.”
“Including you.”
Including her, but she was the one he’d noticed back. “He’s never been unkind to me.” He’d also never stood up for her, but few had. Jorey didn’t need to know that. It didn’t matter now.
Jorey snorted and took to the air, his white scales disappearing against the clouds.
Her hands shook, and she clenched them into fists. How would Andolph greet her today? If nothing else, he would be surprised—she never came to the village more than once a week. She walked the last few miles alone.
Jorey landed on her shoulder.
“How was the view?”
“Same as usual. Sheep in the fields, a young couple glued together in back of a shop.”
She curled a hand around the rose. Andolph would be busy at work this time of day.
“Oh, and a gray cat trying to steal a pheasant hanging in the butcher’s window. Hilarious. I don’t think he’ll get it down before he’s caught.”
She smiled absently.
Jorey climbed wordlessly down the thorns on her arm and into the pouch.
She entered the village, head high, eyes forward. Although many people glanced her way, they quickly averted their eyes. She ignored them and marched straight to the cooper’s shop, bypassed the front door, and circled around to the back alley, which was filled with barrels and wooden casks.
“Andolph?” He wouldn’t answer, of course, because he wasn’t there.
“Ryll?” He was there. Something bumped into a barrel and quick footsteps retreated on the gravel. Andolph appeared, straightening his tunic over his broad shoulders.
Her heart beat an unfamiliar rhythm.
Betrayal.
She refused to listen.
“Just running off some silly kids. What are you doing here? I wasn’t expecting you until next week.”
Kids. It was just kids. She swallowed hard, conscious of the way it made the thorns on her throat wave. “I wanted to see you again. I ... thought you would be pleased to see me.”
“Ah.” He glanced over his shoulder. “Yes, I’m pleased to see you, of course.”
Jorey fidgeted in the pouch.
Andolph made no move towards her. Yesterday, he’d run his fingers through her hair and told her how silky it felt against his skin.
“I can come back another time. I’m sure you’re busy.” She turned to leave.
“Wait.”
She stopped and faced him again.
He stepped closer and looked into her eyes. “I wish...” Another step, and he glanced away. “There has to be some way to break your curse.” He studied her hair. “You know, so we can be together.”
She said nothing, barely daring to breathe. She could tell him right now how simple it would be, and yet how difficult for her.
“Maybe a kiss?” he said. His gaze fell to her lips, one of the few spots completely free of thorns. “A true love’s kiss. It works in the storybooks.”
Jorey snorted, but Andolph didn’t seem to hear.
Ryll knew it wouldn’t work, but her stomach fluttered at the thought of Andolph being so close. “I guess it wouldn’t hurt to try.”
A triumphant smile flashed in his eyes.
Maybe she would get a happily-ever-after just like in the storybooks.
Closing the gap between them, Andolph clasped his hands behind his back, and leaned forward. Ryll closed her eyes and felt his lips tickle against hers for one short moment. That was all.
He huffed.
She opened her eyes.
He took a step back and folded his arms. “Nothing happened.”
Jorey exploded from the pouch and flew straight up into the air, just like he’d done when he’d retrieved the necklace. Ryll ignored him, concentrating on Andolph’s frown. Had he not even enjoyed the kiss?
Andolph shook his head slowly. “This isn’t going to work. Do you even know how to break your own curse?”
She felt as if he’d thrown ice water in her face. The chill dripped its way down her spine and into her hands, her chest, her heart. “What if I said no? Are you willing to take the chance that it can’t be broken?”
Jorey reappeared, gliding low over the shop roof. He landed on the corner behind Andolph.
“No. I’m done.” Andolph shifted back and forth. He looked over his shoulder again and spoke louder. “I said I’m done with this.”
A young man, a friend of Andolph, appeared from behind a different row of barrels. A smile lit his face.
She’d never seen a less welcoming sight.
“You lost the bet, Andy. You said you’d break the curse, but she looks as disgusting as ever.”
Her jaw clenched.
“I can’t believe she fell for it.” The young man approached her, and Ryll backed up until she bumped into a stack of wood. He looked her up and down. “I’m not afraid of you, you know.”
“I’m not afraid of you, either,” she whispered.
“I can tell,” he sneered.
Andolph watched nervously, but he said nothing.
“I think I might like one of those kisses. You—”
A white blur whizzed by, and the young man’s head whipped to the side. He swore and put a hand to his temple.
Jorey had taken a chunk of hair with him, and he rained it down on top of the man.
“What is that thing?” He swatted at the air, jumping in circles as Jorey darted to and fro, leading him away from her. After several tries, his hand connected with the dragon and knocked him to the ground.
Jorey didn’t move.
The man lifted his foot, but she wouldn’t let him stomp on her friend. Her defender. For the first time in her life, she used her thorns for the defense her mother had intended. She lashed out at the man’s arms, swiping with the backs of her hands. He howled and toppled into Andolph, and they both stumbled before righting themselves.
Eyes wide, Andolph pulled his friend towards the front of the shop.
Ryll wrapped her fingers around the golden rose and yanked hard, snapping the silver chain. She threw it at Andolph’s feet. “Every thorn needs a rose.”
She didn’t wait to see if he picked it up.
Using the thorns on her fingers, she ripped a strip off the end of her dress and tied the ends together in sling fashion over her shoulder. She scooped Jorey off the ground and settled him inside to keep him safe from the nettles on her palms. He looked almost grey against the plum fabric.
Over the years, she’d learned to keep her tears inside. Her sister detested weakness. That, and blotting her face had shredded more handkerchiefs than they could spare. Now, she let the tears flow. Andolph’s betrayal had cut her deeply, as if every thorn on her body had been turned inward at the same time. But he was nothing to her, in the end, except a hope for something more. She cried now for her friend, the only person who’d ever come to her aid—and he’d done it more than once.
She wouldn’t let her sister, or anyone else, take that away from her.
She made it to her sanctuary after the sun started its evening descent. Jorey’s breaths came evenly, but he didn’t stir otherwise. She lifted him gently out of the sling and placed him on a bed of moss near the well, arranging his wings as comfortably as she could manage. Covering her hand with the scrap of dress, she dipped her finger in the water and wiped down his face and shoulders, then she lay down beside him, shielding him from the sun, and fell asleep.
The sun had disappeared behind the trees when she woke, and orange fingers spread across the sky. Jorey was gone from his mossy bed. She sat up too quickly, and her head spun.
“I’m here.” He perched on a crimson snapdragon, just as he’d done the evening before. “Are you okay?”
“I was going to ask you the same question.”
“I have a headache. Nothing new. I’ve had one ever since being squeezed into this too-small body. What happened after I got knocked down?”
“Nothing. I ran them off.” She put a hand to her head, hardly able to believe she’d stood up for herself.
“There’s blood on your hands.”
There was—on the backs where she’d slashed Andolph’s friend. She dipped them in the well and swirled them around until they came clean. She explained what had happened.
“Wish I could’ve seen that.” Jorey flew over and landed on her knee.
“You saw too much as it is. I have to get home.” She stood, and he swooped onto her shoulder.
“Will you let me eat with you again?” he said hesitantly.
“Yes. You may eat with me whenever you want and sleep on my pillow. I’ll be your companion for as long as you like. I’m your friend.”
He sighed, and a puff of air tickled her ear.
“Jorey?”
“Yes?”
“Thank you for what you did for me in the village.”
“If I’d been myself, I would have done a lot more.”
His words warmed her on the walk back to the manor.
Until she saw her sister’s face. Chrys stood just inside the back door, blocking the entrance, eyes narrowed. Anger oozed from her, a poison more potent than any their mother had left her.
Ryll strode up and pushed past her, heedless of her sister’s touch but careful to keep Jorey on her far side. Chrys backed away to avoid the thorns on Ryll’s arm, just as Ryll knew she would.
“Where are you going?”
“I’m leaving.”
Chrys gasped.
Ryll turned to face her. She hadn’t thought about leaving, not really, until just then. She had no idea where she would go or what she would do.
“You can’t.”
“You kidnapped my friend.”
“What?” Confusion clouded Chrys’s face, and then understanding. “You can’t mean that talking lizard.”
Ryll refused to argue. “I’m sorry. I won’t live like this anymore.”
“You can’t leave me.” A note of panic entered her voice. “We’re only safe when we’re together.”
“Safe from what, Chrys? From living? I’m not clinging to my defenses anymore just because I’m afraid of getting hurt. I won’t win any battles if I don’t come out and fight, and there are battles worth winning.” She glanced at Jorey.
“You’re joking, right? This dragon has put you up to this. He’s a man, Ryll. You can’t trust anything he says.”
She stood her ground, fists clenched at her sides.
Tears filled her sister’s eyes. “What will I do?”
“No one will know the curse is broken.”
“They will, especially without you around as a visual warning.”
Jorey growled softly.
Ryll’s nails bit into her palms. “So, I’m just here for your own benefit?” Like a guard dog.
“You’re leaving for yours.” Chrys wrapped her arms around herself. “I would come with you, but I think you’ve already left me.”
Her sister would never leave the manor. “You left me a long time ago.”
Chrys’s face hardened as the last rays of the sun disappeared below the horizon. She glared at Jorey. “This is all his fault. You’ve been acting strange ever since you brought him home.”
Jorey shook. No, his whole body hummed against her shoulder, the sensation echoing into her jaw.
Her sister’s hand darted forward and snatched him. Before Ryll could draw breath to gasp, Chrys threw the little dragon up against the far wall. Sparks and embers exploded around his body, and sulfurous smoke filled the air.
Ryll turned away, coughing and fanning the air in front of her face.
Chrys shrieked and ran from the room.
“Jorey?” Ryll blinked tears from her eyes. She tiptoed through the smoke, scanning the floor carefully for the mother-of-pearl scales.
Instead, she saw toes. Hairy, manly toes attached to hairy, muscular legs. She squeezed her eyes shut.
Soft footsteps padded across the room, and then a thunk on the side table by the door, followed by a swishing sound.
She opened her eyes. A man stood across from her, his lower half wrapped in a crimson tablecloth. He was taller than most men in the village, with skin and hair as white as moonlight. Blue eyes stared at her intently.
“Jorey?”
He smiled.
She laughed and took a step forward. “What...”
“You treated me like a man for one full day.” His voice was the same, only louder and deeper. He shrugged. “That’s all it took, but I couldn’t ask outright.”
“Of course.” Even being on the receiving end of a curse, Ryll didn’t understand sorcery or those who practiced it. But, who did?
“If you still plan on leaving, will you come with me?” He paused. “I’m just a farmer’s son, but if you’ve nowhere else to go....”
Chrys would be fine without her. Better, even, once she let go of the barriers she’d created to keep people away.
Jorey spoke again, as if trying to convince her to join him. “Friends, remember?”
He needn’t have bothered. “Friends is a good start.”
While she packed a few belongings, Jorey changed into some old clothes he found in the healer’s cottage. They met again at the well.
As they walked on the moonlit path away from Ryll’s sister, the curse unraveled, and her thorns fell away one by one, leaving behind small crescent-shaped scars. She glanced at Jorey with his mother-of-pearl skin, confident that her future would hold more happily-ever-afters than her past. If not, she would make her own.
Jorey took her hand, and Ryll’s heart soared like a dragon.

The Golden City Captives

I. The Mountain Flames
The fireflies swept down the hill in a gorgeous, undulating wave, until the whole forest above the village of Stillwater appeared to be on fire. Up and down the dirt-covered street, people stuck their heads out of doors and windows, transfixed by the sight. The golden stream flowed closer by the second, heightening the anticipation.
Legends, promises, and prophecies filled every mind in a jumble of excitement. Keio wondered what the gods had in store this time. The People of Light—the Gantari—had finally decided to choose their champions.
Every youth secretly hoped he or she might be one of the lucky few to experience the wonders of the Golden City, where people didn’t go hungry and the streets shimmered with gemstones. Keio tried to picture his mother in the soft silks city women supposedly wore. He imagined working for a wealthy prince, maybe tending his horses or feeding his sheep. If he was good, the prince might sponsor him, so he could earn a commission in the king’s army or apprentice to a blacksmith or pick up some other respectable trade.
The strongest, bravest, and most beautiful of the youths raced into the street, puffed out their chests, and waited for the fireflies to inspect them. Keio longed to go with them, but a glance back at Mother doused his daydreams. Her expression made no sense. It mixed terror and heartbreak. He’d only seen an expression like that one other time in his life: the day the village watchmen brought back his father’s body and left it across the doorway of their one-room home.
Keio didn’t want to think about that time. He turned back to the commotion on the streets.
The lights zipped around Carmichael and Bree before moving on to Jorash and Kaim. Some of the lights stayed near them but most moved on. His friend, Clara Mills, waved from next door before a large hand pulled her back through the window. Keio saw a large section of lights break off from the rest and approach his house, but he never suspected they’d show any interest in him. At twelve, he figured he didn’t have much chance of being chosen.
A single firefly separated from the new pack and flew in close, practically touching Keio’s nose. He waved it away. This close, he could see its face. The features were human only in miniature.
Fire Fairies!
He’d always wanted to see one up close. The delicate creature wore shiny green armor with a spiked breastplate and matching helmet. He bore no weapons, but Keio’s skin tingled, indicating a strong magical presence. The fairy’s lovely, translucent wings beat the air furiously.
The fairy held his hands in front of his body then clapped twice. He emitted a single, high-pitched noise that had Keio clamping his hands over his ears and leaping away from the thing. Suddenly, thousands of fairies surrounded him, encasing him in a cocoon formed by their bodies. Keio thrashed at the sides, but though he could see through the capsule, he might as well have been fighting the wind. Mother gasped and rushed forward, but a new wave of fairies held her back.
She screamed and reached for him, but the case surrounding him muffled the noise.
The case drew tight across Keio’s shoulders and pressed down on his head. He shuddered and tried not to breathe. Realization seeped through his numb mind as a ring of fairies banded together and encircled his wrists and ankles, pulling painfully tight. Keio looked desperately at his mother as horror and truth slammed into him. These fairies had come only to capture and enslave people.
Keio saw his mother fall to her knees and pray for deliverance. Then, the fairies reached out and touched the capsule.
His vision clouded and his lungs felt like they would burst. He clenched his eyes shut but little starbursts of light flashed behind his eyelids. Pain mounted in his head, along with a steadily growing ringing in his ears. When he thought his head might shatter, suddenly the capsule burst, dumping him onto cold, wet grass.
The rich, damp smell calmed him some. Muffled pops followed quickly by thuds announced the arrival of more captives. Keio forced himself to roll onto his back so he could sit up and cast his gaze about frantically, trying to locate his mother. His wrists and ankles still wore bands of interlocked Fire Fairies. Testing the strength of those bonds only resulted in sore wrists and ankles. The only people he saw were other children from his village.
He couldn’t see much beyond this small clearing. Here, the light from the Fire Fairies showed him the grass and a few of his neighbors. But beyond lay absolute darkness. Water seeped through his pants, leaving him chilled. As he took in his surroundings, Keio noted that even the stars couldn’t penetrate the intense light from the Fire Fairies.
A dozen children screamed, cried, or called out questions, but nobody answered.
“What are you doing?” demanded a male voice. The harshly delivered question caused most captives to fall silent. Keio had never heard such an accent before. The words came out clipped and short, like the speaker feared he’d run out of time to speak. The man stepped out of the darkness into the circle of light, almost treading on one of the children. “This wasn’t the agreed upon meeting place.”
A Fire Fairy dropped down from the circle above, growing in size and stature until she was about the size of his mother’s water kettle. Movement from her delicate wings caused a gentle breeze to touch Keio’s face and allowed this new Fire Fairy to hover above the crowd a few feet from the man. Flowing white robes encased her body. Long brown hair hung to her waist. A flower crown perched on her head, giving her a regal air. Her chin inclined upward.
“We want answers first,” said the fairy. Her voice rang out, reaching every ear. “Why is the demand for captives suddenly so high?”
The man glared at the Fire Fairy and shook his fist at her. The movement caused his cloak to fall back, revealing a small patch high on the right side of his chest. The symbol woven into the fabric featured a golden, winged creature.
“Do not forget your place, forest witch.” His voice was pitched low, carrying extra threat. “You know whom we hold. Do your job, take your payment, and don’t ask questions.”
The Fire Fairy froze with her gaze fixed on the man. Keio could tell a struggle happened inside of her, but only flickers of it showed up in her expression. Finally, she nodded stiffly and let her eyes fall shut.
“That threat is getting old,” said the fairy.
“But it’s still effective,” the man reminded her. He grinned, reached into his cloak, and pulled out a small pouch. He shook it gently then tossed it onto the ground. “Here is a gesture of good will from my master. I’m told it’s fresh.”
The bag hit the ground, and a small puff of bright yellow dust shot upward.
The fairy eyed the package, looking stricken. Keio thought she might cry. Slowly, she raised her hands and made a waving gesture.
“Take them then, but tell your master he has them all now. There are no more Children of Promise to be found in these lands. He must release the queen.”
“He’ll do what he likes, and you’ll follow orders if you value her life.”
“It has been fourteen years!” cried the Fire Fairy. “One more and she will die without us, as we will without her. We have done everything asked of us!”
“I don’t make those decisions,” replied the man. His haughty attitude drained away, and he suddenly looked worried. Shaking himself, the man drew his shoulders back. “The rest of the payment’s at the rendezvous. I’ll have some men deliver it as soon as the prisoners are secure.” He opened his mouth to say more but then shut it firmly, spun on his heel, and strode out of the light.
Keio didn’t have a lot of time to consider the strange exchange.
More men stepped into the circle of light and picked up the children. The Fire Fairy bonds were replaced with rough rope cords. Those who fought back were knocked out with swift strikes. Keio kept himself still as they hauled him up and loaded him into the back of a large wagon waiting just outside the light.
Keio’s breath left in a hurry when something small slammed into him.
“Where have you been?” hissed Clara Mills. She tightened her grip around him, pinning his arms to his chest. Her neck craned back to look at him. “We have to get out of here!”
A sword clanged off the side of the cage, followed by a grumpy order for quiet.
Clara let go and drew Keio into the center of the crowd where they could talk. Small conversations buzzed around them. Keio stumbled, hampered by the ropes around his legs. Unlike the fairy bonds, which had kept his ankles locked together, the rope bonds allowed about six inches of movement at a time.
“How did you get free?” Keio demanded.
“They weren’t that tight,” Clara said with a shrug. Her voice, though quieter than before, still zipped out with her usual frantic pace. “I just slipped them off. Don’t worry. I’ll put them back on if we’re still here later. But we shouldn’t be here later. We need to get out. Now.” Clara reinforced the sense of urgency by squeezing Keio’s right hand painfully.
“Calm down,” Keio ordered. He leaned toward her and resisted the urge to pull his hand free. “We’re in trouble, but at least we’re together.”
Clara swatted his hand.
“Do something!” Her expression flickered between worry and hope.
Keio regarded his friend curiously.
“Why are you looking at me like that? I’m in the same cage you’re in.”
Clara clung to his hand but avoided his gaze.
“You know those weird dreams I get sometimes?”
Keio nodded.
“Well, last night I had one and it featured you,” said Clara.
“Me? What about me?”
“You were in a large arena, and so was I. We were bound to large stakes.” Her voice shook slightly as she delivered her report. “I was there, but I wasn’t the focus. You were. If that’s the future, Keio, we need to change it.”
“Why? You want to be the center of attention?”
“Keio! Please. This is serious. I don’t often get much of a sense for a dream, but I know this: if we enter that arena, everything will change forever.” Finishing the report seemed to exhaust Clara. She shut her eyes to rest.
Keio pulled her close and let her fall asleep. Adjusting his position, he cradled his friend as best he could despite bound hands. She confused him. Although the same age as Keio, Clara often spoke with wisdom far beyond her years. Her Dream Gift had always fascinated him, even if the foresight often changed little about the future.
II. The Selection
Shortly after dawn, an increase in the murmurs told Keio their journey would soon end. A quick check confirmed the feeling that they neared their destination. He hadn’t slept a wink, preferring to spend the time thinking. He nudged Clara awake.
“Put the ropes back on,” he instructed. “We’re almost ... wherever they’re taking us.”
Clara’s eyes snapped wide. Quickly, she worked her feet back into the loops meant to restrain her and slipped her hands back into the bonds that would attach them to her waist. Whomever had tied her up had wanted to be thorough. The man hadn’t counted on Clara being able to work her hands free.
Keio was glad his captor had gotten lazy or run out of rope. His wrists were raw from the coarse cords, but at least he could move them away from his body.
When they entered the city, Keio immediately felt the change as the wagon wheels left the rough dirt roads and slid onto a smooth path paved with bright red bricks. Chatter from a busy market reached him, along with the scent of freshly baked bread. Keio’s stomach rumbled, reminding him he hadn’t eaten in hours.
The city was alive, but the streets along their path remained strangely deserted, save for the stoic soldiers watching from the walls that separated the city sections. Occasionally, Keio would spot furtive movement near a window or catch a glimpse of a shade being pulled shut. Once a small child leaned out a window and stared down at them solemnly, waving a sad farewell to them. A woman wearing bright red silks pulled the child back.
Keio and Clara exchanged questioning glances. They worked their way to the edge to get a better look, but the move only gained them a closer look at the heavy brick walls they passed. They’d maneuvered to the back as well, and Keio caught sight of another horse-drawn wagon lumbering up behind them. Two men dressed like the man who’d spoken with the Fire Fairy rode horses in between the two prisoner transports.
Both wagons pulled into a large, beautiful courtyard that boasted a huge fountain in the center. The children pressed themselves against the cage bars and gaped at the watery spray bubbling up out of the fountain. Keio had never seen anything like it. His parched throat ached to taste the water. He couldn’t take his eyes off the fountain, until the wagon finally turned around the right side of the massive dwelling, leaving it behind. Even then, it filled his mind’s eye until an urgent tap from Clara refocused him.
He hadn’t realized the wagon had come to rest before a dark, foreboding building. The prisoners were hustled out of the wagons and into the building. They went quietly, having spent their anger and tears somewhere on the long ride. Keio couldn’t hold Clara’s hand, but he made sure she walked in front of him so he could keep an eye on her. His head felt light from lack of food, but since that feeling was familiar to him, he paid it no mind.
Soldiers herded them inside and positioned them in two straight lines. Keio and Clara found themselves in the middle of the front row. As such, they had a perfect view as the prisoners from the other wagon marched in at sword point. Keio’s heart sank when he saw his mother among the last to step through the doorway.
Where is Clara’s father?
Keio wasn’t sure whether to be glad to know Mr. Mills had avoided the roundup or worried about him.
The man who had spoken with the Fire Fairy stepped through the doorway and tugged on a rope next to the door. Large, heavy drapes drew back from massive banks of windows, flooding the room with light. The man then addressed the adults huddled in small groups near the door.
“Find your children,” he ordered. When nobody moved, he added, “Any unclaimed child will be killed.”
That got them moving.
Keio’s mother practically smothered him. The same thing happened to every other child, except Clara. She stood next to Keio trembling but trying to remain brave.
Everybody held their breath.
Before the men could pull Clara out of line, Keio felt his friend slam into his side as his mother drew her close.
“She’s mine,” declared his mother. “They’re both mine.”
“Is this true?” the lead captor addressed the entire crowd.
Keio heard nothing and sensed no movement.
Finally, a man cleared his throat.
“Aye,” said the man.
“How did the girl come to have such fair hair?” asked the lead soldier.
Keio grew very conscious of the dark color of his hair, which matched his mother’s perfectly.
“She favors her father,” Keio’s mother answered. “My first husband died of a fever, and my second husband died by the sword.”
He was suddenly grateful Clara looked a few years younger than him.
While the man considered whether or not she spoke truth, the door opened and every soldier stiffened.
The two men who would have killed Clara scrambled to the left side, saluted by bringing their right fists up to their left shoulders, and studied the ground.
The lead soldier stood taller.
The new man had a commanding presence, magnified by ornate, deep red robes. They looked heavy. Gold bands lined the collars and wove back and forth across the front, making the robe look like cracked glass.
“Captain Dominick, what is this rabble doing standing here?” The man’s voice snapped the rebuke.
“Forgive me, Lord Ewald. There was some confusion over the lineage of one of the youths,” Captain Dominick explained.
Lord Ewald waved the explanation away.
“Never mind. Summon more men. We’ll do this here. Just be quick about it. My daughter will arrive soon, and I want nothing to disturb her. Do you understand?”
“Yes, my lord,” Captain Dominick said. He turned to the man standing on his left and issued an order that echoed what Lord Ewald had just dictated.
“When Sarah enters, have them kneel, Captain. She will make her choices. Those can be properly stored. Take the rest to the market and fetch me the best price possible.”
“As you say, so shall it be,” the captain said, accepting the order.
Keio felt his mother’s whole arm tremble as she drew him closer still.
“And move the adults off to the side and keep them quiet. I don’t want Sarah distracted,” said Lord Ewald.
The soldiers hurried to complete the order. Several cries rang out as parents were forced to release their grips upon their children. Keio’s mother let go, but not before squeezing his hand reassuringly. She walked after the others before the soldiers could lay hands upon her.
Lord Ewald started pacing in front of the lines of children. “What could be taking so long? How long does it take to get dressed and answer a simple summons?”
As the questions weren’t addressed to anyone, nobody answered.
Keio and the other children tried to stand still, but the tension made them fidgety. Every slight movement drew baleful glares from the guards.
At last, the door swung inward. A young soldier entered and held the door for a small figure. Keio hadn’t known what to expect, but the delicate girl who swept gracefully in took him by surprise. He couldn’t judge her age very well, but he guessed she might be a year or two older than him. The light blue gown hugged her body close, and the sheer cloak that accompanied it draped like fairy wings.
“You’re late,” groused Lord Ewald.
“I apologize, Father. My hair took longer than expected to fix. Please, forgive me.” The girl glided up to Lord Ewald and placed a hand affectionately on his arm. Her light, lively voice fit her very well. The hair she spoke of indeed appeared to have taken some time to arrange. The long blonde tresses had been swept up, braided, and artfully pinned up around her head, leaving only select strands to hang down next to her face.
Keio liked her for no good reason. Not enjoying the reaction, he scowled.
Lord Ewald’s features softened, but he cleared his throat and spoke gruffly. “Very well, but don’t let it happen again.” Lord Ewald turned to the captain and barked an order. “Get them kneeling!”
“That’s not necessary, Father,” said the girl.
Nevertheless, the soldiers scurried to do as bid. Somebody kicked Keio’s right calf, causing his legs to buckle. Strong hands guided him down. He landed hard upon his knees with his bound hands resting in front of him. Frightened squeaks and muffled cries of pain rang out up and down the line.
Lord Ewald rubbed his hands together in anticipation. Then, he stepped behind the girl and placed large, ring-covered hands upon her shoulders.
“This is the moment. Choose wisely, my child.”
Dipping her shoulders, the girl slipped free of her father’s grasp and walked to the right side of the prisoners, off to Keio’s left. She circled the whole group before starting around again, this time pausing in front of each captive. When she reached Keio, she stopped and knelt, looking him deep in the eyes.
He tried to look away, but her right hand reached out and briefly touched his chin. A spark of power from her hand set his teeth tingling. Her eyes widened, but otherwise, she didn’t react. Standing, she moved on, stopping at several others. Finally, she completed one more circuit and returned to where she’d started.
“Have you made your choices about which ones might have magic in them?” Lord Ewald demanded impatiently.
“I have.” Gesturing to Keio and Clara, she added, “That boy and girl have the Divine Touch upon them, but I do not know whether that means what you hope it means, Father.”
“Excellent. Thank you, my dear. You may go now.” Lord Ewald’s tone made the suggestion an order.
“May I return and see them in private later?” asked the girl. “I might be able to gain more insight when we’re alone.”
Keio knew Lord Ewald wanted to deny the request, but her last statement convinced him.
“Keep your visit short,” Lord Ewald said. “I’ll have Captain Dominick arrange something for you.” He looked pointedly at the captain. “Secure the ones she selected and find their parents. Clear the rest of this rabble out.” He hesitated. “See if Lady Arvista wants any of them for the household staff before you take them to market.”
Once again, Keio felt strong hands fall upon him. The children around him shrank away. He didn’t know whether to be grateful the girl had chosen him or envious of those headed for the slave market. He watched helplessly as his mother was culled from the group of adults and whisked away. The terrified expression on Clara’s face broke his heart too.
III. A Terrible Choice
Keio was locked in a small cage, with Clara in a similar situation on his right. He couldn’t even stand up straight without hitting his head on the top, so he remained seated, leaning against the back bars in a doomed effort to find a comfortable position.
Clara spent a few minutes pushing and pulling at the bars before lying down on the cold, hard ground. She couldn’t quite lie flat, but if she bent her knees, she fit quite nicely within the tiny space.
Keio took in the large room they’d been brought to. A row of ten cages lined both walls with a wide path between them. On the way here, Keio had been guided past a half-dozen doors spaced well away from each other. He assumed they too held twenty cages. He’d been disappointed to find that the other cages were empty. It would have been helpful to be able to question somebody more familiar with the place.
“Keio, I’m scared,” said Clara. “Why did she pick us? What is the Divine Touch?”
One of the two guards standing outside their cages turned around and kicked the front of Clara’s prison, causing both of them to flinch.
“No talking to each other!”
“Then, you tell us,” Keio demanded. With considerable effort, he maneuvered so that his face came close to the front bars. “Who was that girl? What was she looking for?”
“I’m not tellin’ you—”
“Don’t torment them, Desmond,” said the other guard. He spoke slowly but his quiet voice carried a ring of command. “If you upset them, Lady Sarah’s going to know about it.”
“I’m not afraid of that half-breed witch!” snapped Desmond. “She can—”
The other guard’s hand shot out and slammed into the first guard’s throat, cutting off further words and sending the man straight to the ground.
“For your own sake, stop talking,” suggested the calm guard.
Red-faced, the guard named Desmond slowly picked himself up and glared at the other man.
“Gentlemen, that will be enough,” said Lady Sarah. She stood in the threshold with her hands neatly folded in front of her. A stony expression said she’d probably heard the entire exchange. “My father has granted me a short audience with the children bearing the Divine Touch. Kindly leave us and return in half an hour.”
Mumbling acknowledgments, the guards quickly marched out.
As Lady Sarah stepped through, a servant girl came in on her heels carrying a tray holding bread, fruit, and cheese as well as two large mugs. Keio guessed the mugs held water, but at this point, he’d have drunk anything. Clara scrambled around until she sat in a position much like Keio’s, nose pressed to the bars.
“Set the tray near the cages and leave us,” instructed Lady Sarah.
The servant girl dipped in a curtsy and obeyed.
“Will there be anything else, mi’lady?” asked the girl.
Lady Sarah checked to see that the guards were out of hearing range before replying.
“No, thank you, Lexi. Please go watch the door. I do not trust them not to return early. After you’ve signaled their approach, you may have your midday meal. I apologize for making you wait so long.”
“It’s happy to help, I am.” The girl’s lilting accent lightened Keio’s mood almost as much as the gentle exchange with Lady Sarah. Lexi curtsied again, deeper this time, then nodded at Keio and Clara before turning to leave the room. She shut the door behind her.
Lexi had placed the tray halfway between their cages but just out of reach.
Lady Sarah bent down and moved the tray close enough for them to touch.
Clara eyed the tray then looked to Keio for a decision. He tried to think, but the hunger was making that difficult.
“I am aware you do not trust me,” said Lady Sarah. “Not that I blame you for that, but we haven’t much time. If I prove the food is sound, will you listen to what I must say?”
Keio nodded, and Clara did the same, though with a bit more enthusiasm.
Picking up the loaf of bread, Lady Sarah broke it in half, ate a small piece from the middle, then handed a large chunk to each of them. Likewise, she proved that neither mug contained a poison before handing them over. Convinced, they tucked into the food eagerly. Despite her impatience, Lady Sarah let them enjoy the food for several minutes before speaking. She passed these intervening moments by gazing out the room’s single window. A skylight let in enough light to see by.
When the last of the food had been consumed, Keio and Clara thanked the lady for her kindness. Keio knew the food was meant to buy goodwill and it definitely worked.
“Why are you sad, Lady Sarah?”
Clara’s question surprised Keio, but he hid it well, eager to hear the lady’s answer. She’d been facing away from them for quite a while. The only sign of sadness was a dip in her shoulders. When she turned to face them, Keio saw the shine of unshed tears in her eyes. The lady attempted a smile, but the effort was dim at best.
“Because I have a terrible choice to make.” Lady Sarah dashed away some tears and drew a deep breath to gain some composure. Blowing out the breath in one long whoosh, she continued, “And I need your help.”
“With what?” Keio asked. He didn’t bother hiding the suspicion flavoring his tone.
Lady Sarah gestured for patience.
“First, let me answer the question Clara voiced earlier,” said the lady. She drew close, pulled back the empty tray, and sat in the cleared space. “I chose you because you have the Divine Touch. That means there’s a good chance you’re a shapeshifter. My father and I hope this is so, though for vastly different reasons.”
“Why?” asked Clara.
“How do you know her name?” Keio inquired at the same time.
“I know both of your names, Keio,” replied the lady. Her smile brightened for a moment. “It’s part of the legacy of being a ‘half-breed witch.’”
They gasped, but she waved away their shock.
“Of course, I heard the guard. Do not concern yourselves with my feelings. What he said was true in a way.” Lady Sarah leaned closer and met both their eyes for a long second. “My mother is of the fair folk.”
“The queen,” Keio murmured, recalling the confrontation between Captain Dominick and the Fire Fairy.
“Yes, my mother is queen of the Serafin. The people of these lands call them Fire Fairies,” Lady Sarah explained. “To her people, ‘queen’ is more than a title. It’s a position of power. Until her death and the rise of a new queen, she’s the only one who can make the skoni, which is simply called ‘fairy dust.’ It enhances a Serafin’s powers.”
Keio’s mind made the appropriate connections. “That’s how your father controls them.”
Lady Sarah’s expression turned troubled. “I do not know everything that transpired, but in the years before my birth, there was a war between the Serafin and the Gantari. One of my mother’s advisors betrayed her, allowing the Gantari king to capture her. That effectively ended the war because the traitor could not become the true queen while my mother yet lived. Instead, the Serafin as a whole were enslaved, but before this was truly known, my mother was gifted to my father for his service during the war.”
“Why are you telling us this?” Clara asked, brushing away a tear.
“You need to understand why I’m asking you for help, and what I’m asking you to do,” said Lady Sarah. “And the terrible choice I’ve made.”
“How can we help?” Keio wondered.
“I believe the power I sense in both of you means you are shapeshifters, but I could be wrong. If so, then my plan is doomed.”
“Why would it matter?” Clara inquired, narrowly beating Keio to the question.
“What’s so important about shapeshifters?” Keio asked.
“My father hopes you’re shapeshifters so he can gift you to the king and improve his status among the nobles, but I want you to escape with my mother.” Lady Sarah forged on with her proposal, speaking faster by the second. “Freeing her will release the Fire Fairies from their obligations to my father and give the resistance a chance to grow.”
“Why would you help the rebels?” Keio queried. He, of course, knew about the rebellion against King Agenor. It had been going on for his whole life. His father always claimed it was nothing more than malcontents making noise.
“Because I must!” Lady Sarah declared. She tugged at the sleeves of her ornate gown. “You may think this finery exempts me from suffering, but my mother’s legacy ensures that I feel more than most. The slave markets are daily filled with a misery that’s hard to define, and that is but one example of the wrongs that exist under this king. If I do nothing to counter my father’s actions, my soul bears the stain of their blood.”
Her passionate speech resonated with Keio.
“How can we help?” he asked.
“No chains can hold shapeshifters for long,” said Lady Sarah. “In two days’ time, King Agenor is due to visit. My father will want to impress him, so he’ll likely bring you two to the arena and force your first change.”
“How can he do that?” Clara wondered.
Lady Sarah winced and her expression turned troubled.
“Triggers for a first change differ for every person, but generally it involves either pain or distress,” she explained. “Father will likely threaten Keio’s mother. If I had more time, I might be able to teach you how to change early. After the first change, you should have the ability to shift at will, but I’m afraid we’ll have to wait for my father’s method to work. I’m sorry about that. If the power I sense in you speaks true, chances are good at least one of you will be able to fly. You must carry my mother back to her people. She can show you the way.”
“If she is of the fair folk, why hasn’t she flown away already?” Keio asked.
Tears pooled in Sarah’s eyes, but she held them back.
“She can’t or won’t. The first thing my father did before making her his wife was to clip her wings. Without her people, they’ve never healed properly. And even if she does manage such a healing, there’s still me. She won’t leave while I’m here. I’m only half fae. I may not ever grow wings.”
“That’s awful,” said Clara.
“What will you do if we cannot shift or change into a form incapable of flight?” asked Keio.
This time the tears did fall.
“I don’t want to think about that.” Lady Sarah drew a shuddering breath and just barely kept from sobbing, though tears flowed freely now. “My mother has requested I still free her people, but I don’t know if I can.”
Keio followed the logic instantly.
Only two things could free the Fire Fairies from Lord Ewald’s control: restoring their queen or destroying her.
IV. The Arena
Over the next two days, Keio and Clara spent many long hours in the cramped, uncomfortable cages, but they looked forward to each brief visit with Lady Sarah. During the half-hour sessions, she would let them out to stretch and eat. The guards were responsible for making sure they had regular reprieves, but Lady Sarah rightly didn’t trust them.
When the three of them were alone, they spent most of the time talking through the plan details, trading stories, and discussing various prophecies. They found Lady Sarah intelligent and devoutly religious. She had many personal theories about the One’s plans for delivering the kingdom from oppression. Planning was difficult without knowing what manner of creature—if any—they would shift into. The lady’s Gift could only predict that their affinity for transformation magic would be strong, nothing more.
Mid-afternoon on the second day, their visit got cut short by a loud trumpet blast. Lady Sarah stiffened and hurried to the window.
Keio followed with Clara right by his side.
As they reached her, Lady Sarah whirled and caught both of their shoulders. Her normally pale features looked extra ghostly in the cheerful light streaming down from the skylight.
“Quickly. Into the cages,” said Lady Sarah. “The guards will be back any moment.”
Footsteps could already be heard in the hallway. Keio and Clara barely made it back inside before the door slammed open and an entire squad of soldiers rushed in. Lady Sarah stood with her back pressed against the cages to prevent the soldiers from seeing Keio and Clara’s movements as they fumbled to snap the locks back into place.
“What is the meaning of this?” demanded Lady Sarah. Her voice sailed high with the question. “You frightened me half to death!”
“The king has arrived,” announced Captain Dominick.
Keio couldn’t see him through the fabric of Lady Sarah’s maroon dress, but he recognized the voice.
“Lord Ewald sent me to fetch his prizes,” continued the captain. “He also said you should return to your chambers to prepare for the reception.”
Lady Sarah suddenly jerked forward.
“Let go of me!” she commanded. She sailed into a wall of five waiting soldiers.
Two grasped her elbows in a manner that both supported and restrained her.
“My men will escort you to your chambers now. It’s for your safety, of course, Lady Sarah.” The captain’s voice dripped with false courtesy. “Appearances must be maintained for the king.”
Now that Lady Sarah wasn’t obstructing his view, Keio saw that Captain Dominick wore a fancy uniform with bright red pants and a shiny silver breastplate. His well-polished helmet had a long red-and white-feather sticking out of it. The rest of the men wore dark blue uniforms. Only two others had silver breastplates. Keio figured they must be officers.
Struggling to free her arms, Lady Sarah tried to move forward.
The captain’s next words stilled her.
“You may also wish to have a word with your mother. Lady Arvista’s health has been unpredictable of late. She could take an ill turn at any moment.”
Anger brought some color back into Lady Sarah’s cheeks. Her chest heaved with suppressed rage and her hands formed fists. She gave the captain a tight, icy smile. Slipping free, she walked right up to the captain.
“Thank you for your concern, captain. It seems I have much to do today. I’d best hurry. Please, step aside.”
Keio wanted to cheer.
Captain Dominick looked like he’d swallowed something foul, but he stepped out of her way and watched her exit. His orders to his men were short and gruff but unnecessary. They were already moving to unlock the cages and pull Keio and Clara free.
The first precious second where nothing hindered Keio caused his heart to leap with the sheer joy of being outside the hated cage. A group of soldiers whisked him away to a room three floors down where he was ordered into a large basin filled with warm water.
A large, kind woman barked orders from behind a privacy screen, making sure he cleaned behind his ears and scrubbed his hair until it gleamed. It was the longest, most thorough washing Keio had ever experienced. Once he was finished, the woman rubbed a cool salve on the remains of the rope burns.
Now clean and dry, Keio let the woman dress him in soft, brightly colored silks. The loose pants billowed around his legs. Likewise, the long golden sleeves hung loosely on his thin frame. A bright red belt was cinched tight at his waist. She showed him his image in a large mirror, confirming his suspicion that he must look like a kite.
Clara had been taken elsewhere, but Keio assumed she was receiving similar treatment. He could almost believe everything would be all right. Thoughts of Lady Sarah’s plan seemed distant and unnecessary until the soldiers returned to escort him down to the reception hall. Keio listened as Captain Dominick delivered strict orders not to speak or do anything except endure inspection with a pleasant smile. Keio didn’t feel much like smiling until he saw Clara. His friend looked like a princess. She wore a bright yellow dress, and her hair had been braided and pinned up around her head much as Lady Sarah’s had been the first time they met her.
Together, Keio and Clara bore an hour’s worth of being on display. They stood on a raised platform and nervously eyed the crowd. King Agenor and his advisors circled like birds of prey. They poked and prodded the children, discussing the finer points of their appearances. The women in the crowd held hushed discussions behind fancy handheld fans. At first, the attention was intriguing, but it quickly grew tedious. By the end, Keio wanted to rip off the fine silks and run screaming through the crowd.
Finally, at the end of forever, the king changed everything with a simple statement.
“I’ll admit they’re fine specimens, Lord Ewald. Let us see what, if anything, lies inside these creatures. If it’s truly remarkable, I’ll grant you three more towns and one city of your choice.”
“That is most generous, my king,” said Lord Ewald. “If they disappoint you, I will grant you use of my Fire Fairy army for a full year.”
The men shook on the wager, setting off a few frantic minutes of bets being placed.
Keio’s disgust grew every second he spent in these people’s presence.
When each man seemed satisfied with his wager, soldiers took Keio and Clara away to separate destinations again. This time, no warm bath awaited Keio. Instead, the soldiers quickly stripped away the silks and replaced them with simple brown trousers and a white shirt. They fitted his wrists and ankles with metal cuffs that linked them together with a sturdy chain.
They brought him down to the back of the massive house where well-dressed people gathered in droves. Clara and her escorts were already waiting for them. She too wore simple clothes, though her shirt was a pale blue color that matched her eyes. Keio wished they hadn’t bound her.
Both children were lifted up into yet another cage. This time, solid gold rods formed the bars. The soldiers secured their chains to two wooden poles with rusty metal rings coming out the top. The first bump as the wagon started moving almost knocked Keio and Clara off their feet. Clara sent Keio a nervous look. He wanted to reassure her, but he could barely maintain his balance as the wagon continued down the streets. Standing gave them an excellent view of the city as they wound through various sections, both rich and poor.
Grim-faced people lined the paths. From time to time, Keio saw someone reach up and place two fingers on their foreheads between their eyes. It took him a while to identify the gesture as a sad salute and a tribute to the doomed. He wondered why they showed up at all until he noticed the soldiers interspersed at regular intervals. Most of the population was captive in one form or another. The realization shattered the last of the good feelings left from the kind treatment they’d received in the afternoon. The kindness had almost convinced him this place could be the Golden City of his dreams. He still had little confidence in Lady Sarah’s plan, but he admired her for the conviction to stand against her father.
They left the walls of the city behind and traveled the short distance to the arena, which sat next to the city like a large decorative egg. The arena looked big from the outside, but its imposing atmosphere was magnified once inside. The lack of a roof allowed the sun to bathe everything in the center in broad beams. The spectator stands rose up the same to every side except the far right which held a magnificent viewing platform obviously meant for the important people.
A thick layer of fine, yellow sand covered everything in the middle, preventing the horse-drawn wagon from getting far. Keio and Clara were unloaded near two tall pillars and led inside by a proud escort of officers wearing shiny breastplates. Keio couldn’t look into them without squinting, so he shut his eyes and allowed his legs to follow the soldiers’ directions. His heart fluttered when he finally opened his eyes and noticed that his mother was already present. She had been tied to a pole threaded through large holes in a wooden platform positioned on the left side beneath the grandstand. A rope wrapped around her waist and a metal chain bound her hands above her head.
Keio wanted to transform right now, but he didn’t know how. Lady Sarah had tried to prepare him for what might come, but the sight hit him hard anyway. He was led up the right side of a second wooden platform, facing his mother, and forced to kneel before a metal stake with a ring fixed on top. Soldiers secured the wrist chains to the metal stake then added a single, jeweled collar, which they fitted around Keio’s neck. The spark of hatred blossomed into a raging flame when he heard a whimper from Clara.
Spear-toting soldiers surrounded them on three sides.
Keio tried to ignore his mother’s plight but could think of little else. Straining against the collar, he looked at the grandstand holding the royal entourage.
“What’s wrong with them?” Lord Ewald grumbled the question to Lady Sarah.
“The protective instincts have not yet asserted themselves, Father.”
Her words pierced Keio’s chest. Despite her warning, they still sounded like a betrayal. His gaze flew to the other platform where three soldiers lifted his mother’s chin with the tips of their spears. The sharp blades opened shallow cuts at her throat. A fractional amount of pressure would kill her.
Desperation consumed Keio. A strange energy filled him, making him feel like his blood had suddenly caught fire. It wasn’t exactly painful, though he wouldn’t call it pleasant either. He spread his arms as wide as they would go and yanked back on the chain linking him to the metal stake. It rattled but stayed in place. Heat and pressure mounted inside him until he thought his skin would burst. He clenched his eyes shut and drew his fists in toward his chest in an effort to contain the sensation as it turned painful.
He screamed—at least he tried to. What came out was a powerful screech.
Keio didn’t realize he was flying until he hovered six meters above the wooden platforms. The shock almost knocked him out of the air. He twisted his head this way and that, trying to see what he’d become. He couldn’t see much, but his hands looked like an eagle’s claws, his feet had the appearance of a lion’s paws, and he caught flashes of a long, sleek tail with a tuft of fur at the very tip.
A collective gasp drew his attention downward. His vision had improved a hundredfold. He could see individual beads of sweat and tears that trickled down his mother’s face. Enraged, he screeched again and dove at the soldiers still menacing his mother with their spears. At the last moment, they tried to turn the weapons on him, but Keio slammed into them with crushing force, flinging them off the platform in different directions.
“Griffin!”
The awed whisper reached Keio’s ears as he caught his reflection in the armored breastplates of the soldiers. He felt lightheaded as a half-dozen eagle heads blinked back at him.
V. Breaking Free
The sight of his new form frightened Keio. Instinctively, he dug his claws into the wooden platform. The strong talons ripped into the soft wood. He wanted to free his mother, but he had no hands. He dared not touch her for fear of harming her. His body was too new to be trusted. Every time he tried to shout at the men to let her go, another screech split the dusty air. He fluttered his wings in frustration and scratched at the platform floor.
Shock kept everybody rooted in place for a while, but as it wore away, the soldiers picked up their spears and pointed them Keio’s way.
“Fly, Keio!” Mother whispered. “Get away.”
His vigorous head shake needed no interpretation.
Many people started speaking at once, but one voice rang out above the others.
“Submit or she dies!” roared Captain Dominick.
Keio’s head whipped toward the platform he’d come from.
The captain stood behind Clara with one arm wrapped around her waist. The other held a sword across her neck.
“No, Keio!” Lady Sarah shouted. She leaned over the railing, gripping it hard. “Fly!”
Lord Ewald backhanded her, sending her crashing into two soldiers. They caught her arms and held tight.
“Hold her!” Lord Ewald snapped, even though they were already doing so.
“No, please!” begged Lady Ewald. She addressed her husband directly. “Leave her alone!”
Lord Ewald glared down at his wife.
“I don’t know what she did, but I know she’s responsible.” Anger spiked inside Keio. He rose up four meters to get a better perspective.
Do you trust me? Lady Sarah’s voice appeared within Keio’s mind like one of his own thoughts.
He jerked his head negative.
Stick to the plan. He cannot kill her. I promise.
A small, frightened cry from Clara contradicted the thoughts.
“Capture that griffin!” ordered the king. “But do not kill him!”
The royal guards snapped to attention then moved to obey their king.
Forget me. Save my mother and escape. That’s all that matters. Your friend will be fine.
Keio tilted his head and pierced Lady Sarah with a sharp look.
I cannot guarantee your mother’s safety, but I will die protecting her.
“What will it be, griffin?” challenged Captain Dominick. “Who should die first?” The second question held a lot of mocking as well as scorn. He gestured with his sword.
Twisting his head around, Keio saw that the king’s soldiers had made it to his mother. Their swords and spears leveled at the captive.
Every eye went to Keio, awaiting his decision.
If he surrendered, he might save some of them, but he would be condemning them to permanent captivity. In the span of a second, his eagle eyes took in each person. His mother’s eyes were shut and her lips moved in silent prayers. She would tell him to escape. Clara looked frightened beyond words but resigned to her fate either way. He knew where Lady Sarah stood.
Reaching a decision, Keio released a primal war cry and dove for the grandstand. Soldiers and nobles alike scrambled backward as fast as they could. The wind from Keio’s powerful wings flattened everybody in a short radius of his target, except Lady Ewald. She stood alone in the center with her arms held wide in welcome. As Keio landed next to her she delicately climbed up to a position just behind his head, tucking her knees between his shoulder blades.
“Do not fear. We will not abandon them,” promised Lady Ewald. She spoke low so only Keio’s keen ears could hear. “My people are coming.”
With a cry of rage, Captain Dominick threw Clara against the wooden piece to which she was chained. Raising his sword high, he plunged it downward at her back. Keio screeched in helpless rage, expecting to see his friend pinned to the pole.
Instead, the sword rang as if the captain had struck solid stone.
Clara held tight to the pole. Tears streamed down her face. She blinked rapidly, and Keio saw the change in her eyes. The normally gentle blue orbs flipped to a brilliant gold color and the pupils lengthened into vertical slits. Next, her pale skin darkened and hardened. She screamed as the mass of her body increased a thousand fold instantly. The wooden platform creaked and cracked under the sudden weight. Clara’s scream changed pitch, deepening into a roar that shook the entire arena.
The chains holding Clara snapped into multiple pieces and flew in random directions. One piece struck a soldier in the forehead, knocking him out. The wooden platform trembled then collapsed. Clara stood up, causing Captain Dominick to slide down off her back with a terrified scream. She stalked toward the soldiers on the other platform, but they scattered like ants from a kicked hill.
“Dragon!” The cry rose up from everywhere.
Men shouted and hurried to form battle lines, but without proper coordination, their efforts were paltry. The king and Lord Ewald each shouted directions, often contradicting each other.
A stream of fire sent the shaky lines scattering in disarray.
Keio trotted over to Lady Sarah who also climbed onto his back. The soldiers with her made no move to stop her. The sight of Clara’s transformation into a blue-green dragon had stolen their bravado.
The sky darkened as the arena filled with small flying forms.
The crowd murmured restlessly, hunkered down to stay out of the confrontation.
“Let us go set your mother free,” said Lady Sarah.
Keio flew to the platform holding his mother and knelt so Lady Sarah could dismount. As she had done with the locks to their cages, Lady Sarah conquered the latches with a simple touch. Once free of the ropes and chains, Keio’s mother threw her arms around his feathered neck.
“We must hurry,” said Lady Ewald. “The king’s forces will regroup soon.”
Keio suddenly realized they had a problem. He could carry Lady Sarah and Lady Ewald, but beyond that, he wouldn’t be able to fly. He looked to Clara, thinking perhaps she might be able to help. She could certainly bear more weight than Keio. However, she appeared less confident about flying. There was no way for an inexperienced person to safely ride her.
Lady Sarah must have performed the same mental calculations, for she reached up and placed a hand on Keio’s face.
“You must leave me,” she whispered.
“No!” The protest came from Lady Sarah’s mother, but Keio’s heart echoed it.
“I alone stand the best chance of surviving what comes,” said Lady Sarah. “Keio, carry our mothers on your back.”
“My people can save you,” declared Lady Ewald.
“They cannot save us both, mother,” said Lady Sarah. “Now, go.”
She spun around and ran toward the soldiers still harrying Clara. Some soldiers finally started shooting arrows.
Clara knocked an entire row of soldiers over with a sweep of her spiked tail. She then joined the battle in the sky, trading blows with the twin black dragons that had formed from the royal guards. Together, she and the Fire Fairies fought them to a draw.
Keio wanted to join the fight, but he couldn’t do so and keep his mother and Lady Ewald safe. He did the next best thing and flew high above the arena. He adjusted his altitude when he saw that the battle for the sky moved quickly in his direction.
“All who seek freedom should flee now!” shouted Lady Sarah. “Follow the Fire Fairies!”
Many people fled as she suggested. Several others in the crowd jumped over the walls into the sandpit and grabbed weapons, forming a makeshift defensive line in front of Lady Sarah.
A twin line of Fire Fairies formed and blinked in quick succession, one right after the other, literally lighting the road to freedom. Lady Sarah kept busy directing the stream of refugees into that flow.
Keio saw movement behind Lady Sarah. He screeched a warning, but it got lost in all the activity.
“Save my daughter,” ordered Lady Ewald.
Keio prepared to dive, but a stream of Fire Fairies fell from the sky.
“Kill the rebel!” cried the king.
The figure of a royal guard appeared behind Lady Sarah and paused, before plunging a small dagger into the girl’s side. She cried out and fell forward into a surprised Captain Dominick’s arms. The crowd of refugees closed ranks around them, sweeping Lady Sarah up and carrying her on their shoulders. A blazing wall of Fire Fairies formed behind the refugees.
“Stand down!” ordered Lord Ewald. “Let them leave!” The man had fallen to his knees when he saw his daughter fall, but now he struggled to stand.
“Kill them!” King Agenor shouted.
“Defend them!” countered Lord Ewald. “You will not further harm my daughter, sir!”
“This is treason, Ewald!”
The men glared at each other. The two factions of soldiers formed uneasy battle lines, eyeing their commanders nervously.
“So be it,” hissed Lord Ewald. “The City of Oswald officially secedes. We can finish this now or later. The choice is yours.”
“You will regret this!” cried the king. With that, his two black dragons dove from the sky to retrieve him.
“We must go. There’s still too much danger here, and Sarah’s time is short. Only the full efforts of my people’s healers can help my daughter now. I will show you the way,” said Lady Ewald. Her voice was heavy with grief.
Somehow Keio knew the battle would go ill for Lord Ewald’s forces if he fled. For a moment, he hovered, caught in currents of indecision. Everybody would tell him to follow the plan and go, but if he left, King Agenor would escape and return with a larger force. More people would suffer. Then again, if they didn’t leave soon, Lady Sarah could die.
She could perish either way.
Screeching frantically to Clara, Keio dove for the ground aiming for the area behind Lord Ewald’s forces. Thankfully, their long friendship superseded words. Clara positioned herself above Keio protectively, while he gently dropped off his charges.
“You be careful,” his mother warned as she slid off his back and drew Lady Ewald with her.
A single, powerful bound brought Keio into the exact center of the arena. He sent out a screeching challenge that brought sudden silence to the remaining crowd. Those looking to flee paused. The men holding Lady Sarah stopped moving and arranged themselves into a tighter protective ring around her.
Seeing Keio return, the king ordered his dragons to dive into the arena.
“Do you mean to challenge me, boy?” demanded the king.
Calming his heart, Keio willed his body to transform back into his human body. The crowd gasped. Clara bellowed in frustration. He wasn’t sure he could turn back into a griffin at will, but he trusted Lady Sarah’s word that he would.
“I do,” he answered formally. Keio knew the legend on every heart and mind as well as anybody. A captive from the Golden City would set the kingdom free. Confidence surged through him. It was like Lady Sarah’s spirit joined with his, willing him to speak. “Reveal your true nature!”
The king leapt down a few feet from Keio, flanked by his two black dragons who transformed into hulking men simultaneously. He laughed and leapt forward suddenly, knocking Keio back with a firm push.
Keio just barely kept his feet.
A dagger appeared in the king’s hand.
“I owe you nothing, boy, but your insolence has earned you death,” said the king.
As King Agenor swung with the dagger, Keio ducked and initiated the change. The blade swished over head as his sharp beak tore into the king’s ankle. The man’s pained scream quickly changed pitch as he transformed into a large, powerful snake and wrapped tightly around Keio’s feathered neck.
The snake’s bulk and sudden movement nearly snapped Keio’s neck, but he tucked his powerful legs beneath himself and tore into the snake with his talons. For a wild minute, they tumbled, kicking up a cloud of dust. His talons kept it at bay, but it had a firm grip around his neck. At last, Keio shook himself loose from the snake.
Suddenly, the snake went limp, slid to the ground, and transformed back into a man. He lay on his back as if asleep.
Keio had no idea what had just happened.
One of the large black men stepped forward, knelt, and laid a bloody dagger at Keio’s feet.
“You have shown him for what he is and given us courage to seize our freedom. If you will allow it, I am at your service.”
“I too will serve you, griffin,” said the other soldier.
Keio started to shake his head, but Lady Sarah’s voice once again appeared in his mind, though not as strong as before.
Clara’s dream foretold this, Keio. If you do not accept this burden, a civil war will consume this land. Right the wrongs. Preserve the future. Become king and they will follow you. Go to my father. He can help.
Heart pounding, Keio flew into the sky, completed a quick lap around the arena, and gently touched down in front of Lord Ewald who had climbed onto the remaining platform.
The man looked ashen.
“I never thought I’d see this day.” His voice started out hesitant and got stronger as he continued. Since everybody else hardly dared to breathe, they heard every word. “King Agenor died without an heir. As First Lord, I must take up his banner or choose a successor. Far be it for me to argue with prophecy, but you have my service as an advisor should you wish it. I’m sure my daughter will say the same.”
As one, the huge crowd around the arena dropped to their knees.
Terrified, Keio looked to Clara.
Still in dragon form, she blew a blast of fire in salute to the new king.

Seekers

Ever since I can remember, Ma and I used to play hide-and-seek while Da was out fishing. It wasn’t the sort of hide-and-seek I learned to play in school later on, where everyone hides and one person seeks. No, with Ma, we were both seekers, and what we sought had already been hidden.
“Let’s seek for gloves today,” she would say after breakfast. “If I were a little glove that a brownie had hidden away, where would I be?” And we would be off, searching every nook and cranny, every dusty corner, the places behind drawers where papers are lost, even lifting off the grates from the heating ducts. And the trick, of course, was never to leave a clue for the brownie to know you had been searching. Every wrinkle in your sheet had to be returned just so, every side table had to be put back exactly where it had been, and every curling piece of wall paper had to be glued back down.
At first, we just sought for things at home, little things that we might really have lost. Then, as I got older, we would go to Da’s workshop, just up from the dock where he kept his boat, and while we waited for him to come home, we would seek in his workshop.
“You’ve got good sharp eyes, Maggie,” Ma would say, “but even if you close your eyes, you can seek. Try it.” And I would. I would close my eyes and take a deep breath, smelling the myriad scents of the workshop with its greasy machine parts and corners of dry bread, its salt-stiff nets and bits of leather rubbed dark with use. I could feel a faint draft on my cheeks, the damp kiss of sea air. I could even taste the salt and fish on my lips and on the tip of my tongue.
“Maybe by the door,” I would say when I was small. And then, as I got older, “Maybe in the corner behind the workbench.” And Ma and I would go and look, studying the wall beside the door, tracing our hands over the wood as if we might find a secret compartment, or pulling back the workbench to study the corner, the cabinets bolted to the floor—was there too much space there? Space that hadn’t been accounted for? We were always done seeking by the time Da arrived, sitting together on the bench and chatting, or standing outside on the dock, waving to him as he directed his boat in.
When I was five, we found what we were seeking. I didn’t know it, of course. We had found so many other things along the way. In the public gardens we had found lost dog collars and a red scarf and glass bottles of all different colors and sizes and once a wedding ring that Ma took in to the police and that they returned after two months. Ma gave it to me and I kept it in the little wooden box on my dresser with my favorite seashell and a blue glass bead we found at the zoo. We found shiny coins and broken dolls, shredded blankets and old library books, which Ma always took back to the library as well. And so it wasn’t all that strange to me that, when we found the old, moth-eaten cloak smooth as skin, Ma called off our seeking for the day.
We found it, of all places, in the little alley behind Da’s friend Alec’s house. Uncle Alec kept a workshop in the alley, as he was a carpenter and not a fisherman, and in the course of our seeking, we slipped into his workshop. We had seen him walking to the pub, so we knew we were in the clear for an hour. Ma and I giggled as we slipped inside.
“Now, Maggie, close your eyes and feel for it. If you were a hidden treasure, where would you be?”
I closed my eyes and let the workshop seep into me, and when I opened my eyes I was already pointing to the far wall with its cabinets and racks of tools. “I’d be in the center cabinet,” I said. “Maybe hidden in a false bottom.”
Once we lifted the tools out, taking careful note of how we would have to set each one back, Ma let me run my hands over the bottom of the cabinet until I found the edge with my fingers. We lifted it up carefully, and there it was: the moth-eaten ragged old cloak that made me think of water-creatures, otters and seals and the like. It was neither fur nor cloth, soft and pliant as my mother’s skin, if much darker. And it wasn’t a cloak really, so much as a half-cloak, for it wasn’t that big at all.
“Oh,” Ma said softly. And then, with a little edge to her voice, “It looks like Alec’s been stealing. Someone must be missing this.” She stood up and began to fold it. “Perhaps we should leave it with the police.”
Ma was always right about taking things to the police. Together, we put everything else back as we’d found it, but by the time we left the workshop it was very nearly nap time, so we went home instead of to the police and Ma tucked me in bed. Then she went and put on her little pink-and-white polka dot kerchief to keep her dark hair from flying about, and she wrapped her old green shawl around her shoulders. She came back to my room with her market basket over her arm. I could see the basket was heavy, but Ma explained that directly.
“I’ve got to take some food over to Aunt Kate’s house,” she said. “I should have thought of it earlier when we were there.”
“What for?” I asked sleepily.
“It’s very sad,” she said gently, coming in to sit beside me. “Someone Aunt Kate loves has died.”
“Oh,” I said, turning on my back to look at Ma. In the half-light, with her polka dot kerchief and her bottle-green shawl, with her face slim and pretty and her eyes wide and sad, she was the most beautiful person I had ever seen. “Will she be okay?”
“Yes,” Ma said at once. “She hasn’t lost a part of herself. That’s much harder.”
I nodded.
“I’m going to let Mrs. O’Malley know you’re asleep, so when you wake up you can just go see her.”
“Okay,” I said.
She squeezed my hand, then bent over to kiss me on the cheek. She whispered something in my ear which I didn’t quite hear, not until the apartment door clicked shut and my mother was already gone, walking smartly down the street toward Aunt Kate and Uncle Alec’s house and the little workshop in the alley out back. Come and visit me one day. And then, because it was nap time, I closed my eyes, rolled over, and drifted off to a sleep.
I dreamed that Ma and I sought for shells on the rocky beaches, but when I found one and held it to my ear I could not hear the sea, though its waves washed at my feet.
Da came home late that night, his face white and his clothes sweaty and smelling of smoke.
“Where’s your Ma?” he asked as I came out of my room. I had not gone up to Mrs. O’Malley’s flat, even though I knew she would have cookies and lemonade for me, and a little white dog to play with. Instead I waited in my room after I woke up and played with my seashell from the wooden box on my dresser, though I was afraid to hold it to my ear.
“She went out,” I said, inexplicably certain that I did not want to tell him anymore than that.
“Where?”
I shrugged.
He collapsed into a chair, staring blankly at the wall. “She’s gone?”
“What happened, Da?” I asked, because I did not know how to answer him.
“Alec’s dead.” Da rubbed his face, smearing his cheeks with black stuff. “There was a fire in his workshop while he was in there. He couldn’t get out.” He took a gasping breath and then looked at me. “I shouldn’t have told you that.”
“Aunt Kate,” I said, thinking of Ma.
“She’s okay—well, as okay as a woman can be with a little one on the way and her husband dead. It was the strangest thing. Someone had just left some food on their doorstep when the fire broke out. She kept going on about it as if it had been an omen. Just some bloody bread and jam and fruits. Probably some friend of hers stopped by and she didn’t hear their knock.” Da shook his head. “Get me a beer, would you, Maggie?”
I came back in with the bottle and perched on a chair to watch him. He flicked off the cap using the edge of the side table and we both watched as it spun a small arc to the floor. “Where’d you say your Ma was?”
I shake my head. “She was going out somewhere. She told Mrs. O’Malley.”
Da relaxed at that, took a swig from the bottle. “Why are you up so late?”
“I was waiting for you.”
“Good girl,” he said, reaching over to muss my hair. “Get to sleep, now. I’m going to finish this beer and then go check with Mrs. O’Malley, just make sure your Ma’s okay.”
And so I went to bed, even though I knew that when I woke up in the morning, Ma would not be back, would never be back, just as Aunt Kate would never get her husband back. Da cried for a week after that, stayed home and drank and wept like a child, except that I was a child and I didn’t cry at all. I brought him water and hid when he threw things or yelled for more beer, and made myself sandwiches, and visited Mrs. O’Malley for cookies and lemonade and food as well.
Mrs. O’Malley told me about how the police and the Coast Guard were searching for Ma, and how she was sure that they would find her and bring her back, but I’d seen the news when Da was too slow or drunk to change the channel when I came into the room. I knew what the reporters said: that they’d found her basket with all her clothes out on the north shore, and her footprints leading down to the water, and that was all.
A year later, when I was in school and learning how other children played hide-and-seek, Da married Aunt Kate and she came to live in our flat with my new little brother. Aunt Kate, I found, didn’t understand about seeking, and after asking her once in a round-about side-of-your-eye sort of way, I didn’t ask again. But I didn’t forget, and sometimes when I went out to play I would slip away from the other children and seek. Mostly, I wanted to remember how seeking worked, and I wanted to open my eyes and find Ma watching me, her brown eyes bright and sparkling as she waited for me to direct our search. But she was never there when I opened my eyes, and it wasn’t quite so fun then to find the lost watches, lonely earrings, and forgotten pens.
At the end of the year, my class went to the beach for a picnic. We had buddies, and mine was Gracie, who was thin and pretty and absolutely wretched. She wore dresses and bows in her hair and the teachers cooed over her, and I suspected that they gave her sweets when the other children weren’t around. Soon enough, she decided she didn’t want to be my buddy and went off to play with her two other friends who had been buddied up together.
I found a seashell and lifted it up to my ear, a little worried, and for a moment, I heard nothing at all, not even the laughter of the children getting their feet wet in the puddles left by the tide as it pulled it out, and then, sure as my heartbeat, I heard my mother’s voice. Come and visit me.
I followed the pull of her voice the way I found hidden things, closing my eyes and listening deep down inside, tasting the sea salt air and listening to the shouting of the gulls. Then I walked the length of the shore, threaded my way over the far dunes, and followed the rocky path down past the cliffs to the little grotto, sliding down the loose shale to the wide stones where the seals sun themselves.
Ma waited for me in the water beside the rocks, her bare shoulders pale in the afternoon. I’d never seen her shoulders before. They seemed much lighter than I thought they would be, but then even her face was paler. She smiled, and called my name quietly, her voice the sound of the waves washing against the rocks. I hurried across the rocks to her. When I reached her, I realized she held the old skin cloak against her front. It was no longer the shabby thing I remembered but soft and shining and pearled with water.
“Hallo, Maggie,” Ma said again.
“Hallo, Ma.”
“I missed you.”
“I missed you, too.” We looked at each other a long while, then Ma looked out across the water.
“How’s your Da?”
“He married Aunt Kate.”
She nodded thoughtfully. “You doing okay?”
I shrugged. She watched me, her eyes sad. “Did you ever want to meet your other Grammy?”
“Your ma?” I asked. She nodded. “I’d like that.”
“Come swim with me,” she said, reaching a hand out to me. Her fingers were as long and slender and lovely as I recalled. If I reached out my hand I could just touch her fingertips. She took a step closer, so that her cloak brushed the gray stone, and her fingers closed gently around mine, steadying me.
“Will we be gone long?”
“As long as you like.”
“Okay.”
She smiled and then let go of my hand to lift something out of the water: a little tiny cloak much like hers. “Change into this first.”
I left my clothes in a pile on the rocks, though Ma made me fold them up nice and put a small stone on them so they wouldn’t fly away. Then she helped me put the cloak on, which actually fit quite well, wrapping me up cozy and warm so I hardly got wet when I slid into the water next to her. And then we swam, Ma wearing her cloak, dark as a sea creature and swift as the wind, and me in mine just beside her. We raced through the shallows, darting between the fish, and arcing up for breaths of air, and then headed out together into the deeper waters, leaving behind Gracie and the kindergarten class, and the old dock with my father’s fishing boat he hardly used any more, and the seashell and the wedding ring and the blue glass bead all in the little wooden box on my dresser, and my new little brother and my new mother and my old Da with his beer-sad eyes and his new job in a factory, and my little pile of clothes folded just so for the coast guard to find.

Mystery of Asgina Lake

Officer Randell stood next to the covered body, puzzled by the red marks that twisted around the exposed wrist. Unlike rope burns, this wound had small circular marks as well as a smooth red line that ran up the arm to the elbow. Like something had latched on, refusing to let go. The burning Alabama sun scorched him. Randell scratched his temple while reviewing the case notes from the first responder.
“Hi, Dad. Is this one of the missing fishermen?”
Randell glanced over his shoulder and grimaced. His teenage daughter Ella strode to his side. He sighed. If Ella was here, her twin sister Lena wouldn’t be far behind. He searched the scene. There she was, talking to the medical examiner. “Yes, this is Tony Rivers.” He pointed at the victim with his ball point pen. “What are you two doing here?”
“We were bored at Aunt Ellen’s. We heard a body washed up, thought you might want some company.” Ella handed a fresh cup of hot coffee to her father, and then she canvassed the area surrounding the body.
Lena drifted over and bent over the body for a better view. Both fraternal twins had inherited their mother’s tall frame and cream-colored skin with a smattering of bronze freckles across the bridge of their button noses and icy blue eyes. The hair was the kicker. Ella was blessed with his thick chestnut-brown hair which she kept braided down her back. Lena wasn’t that lucky. She kept her hair hidden beneath a black knitted beanie that bulged from the mass it contained. One blond wisp gave the color away.
“The M.E. says he probably drowned.” Lena used a stick to point to the red marks. “Do you think he was held underwater? These marks are unusual.”
Randell pressed his lips together. His eyes narrowed at the twins. When his wife died two years after they were born, his strange work hours, mixed with the unusual demands of a small town cop, made raising the girls alone problematic. At the moment, he regretted allowing them so much time on the job with him. “Go home.”
“Come on, Dad. We’re bored. There’s nothing to do at Aunt Ellen’s. She had us washing her mama’s china,” Ella said standing with her hands on her narrow hips. “At this rate, this summer will be as boring as the past three.”
“She won’t trust us to eat off her china, but she made us wash it. Our summer essay is going to reek of binge watching S.H.I.E.L.D. and reading comics. Again.” Lena paused before adding, “Do you think he was murdered?”
“No. Now, go home.” They were starting to circle, like fire ants. If he didn’t contain them soon, the twins would make this their summer project. He grabbed each of the girls by the shoulder and pulled them away from the body, only releasing them when they reached the yellow crime scene tape at the edge of the parking lot. He dug into his pocket, retrieved several small bills, and thrust them into Lena’s hand. “Here, go to the diner. Eat some ice cream.”
“Ice cream? What are we, five?” Lena asked.
“I wish. Then I could put you over my knee and spank you.” He turned to another officer. “Joe,” he yelled, “do not let these two back into the crime scene. They’re not allowed any information. Do you understand?”
Lena rolled her eyes and Ella huffed while shaking her head in frustration before saying, “We’re not kids, Dad. We can help.”
“Don’t.” He pointed a finger at each of them. “You are children. Fifteen-year-old kids. And I plan on you staying young. You don’t need to know about these things. This isn’t one of your Nancy Drew books. This is a real dead body. Now, I have to go to Mr. Tony’s house to tell his family that he’s never coming home.” He took a calming breath while looking into the tender faces of his offspring. “Go home. Stay out of it. Be kids.”
Ella narrowed her eyes and grumbled, “David Baldacci books! I haven’t read Nancy Drew since third grade.”
Randell’s eyes swelled to the size of cathead biscuits, and his face reddened as he took a step closer.
Lena took Ella’s hand. “We’re sorry, Dad. We promise not to bother the crime scene again.”
The pair walked the half-mile to The Silver Car Diner. The gleaming stainless steel car shone in the sunlight. Passersby squinted from the reflection. The car was bought at auction and then brought back to Asgina Lake. It was a silver Easter egg in a field of boring rocks.
A bell jingled when Ella opened the door. “Rats! All the barstools are taken.” She wrinkled her nose. “I guess we’ll have to take a booth.”
Mabel, an older woman with short gray hair and an apron to match, approached them. “Good afternoon. Now, Lena, I know your daddy tried to teach you good manners. Take that hat off inside.”
Lena’s eyes bulged.
“Go on now. It’s bad manners to wear a hat inside.”
The girls exchanged wide-eyed looks. Lena never took her knitted beanie off in public. They tried to eat at the diner when Lula worked. She was kind and gave the twins extra scoops of ice cream.
“Yes, ma’am.” She reached her hand up, tugging the beanie from her head. As it inched off, kinky blond curls escaped and encircled her head like a manic halo.
“Wow. That’s unfortunate,” Mabel said. “You know you might want to put a little oil on that mess to calm it down.” She turned to Ella. “Follow me.” She led them to a booth in the center of the car, handed them menus, then disappeared.
“I am so sorry, Lena. She’s way out of line,” Ella said. “Don’t listen to Mad Mabel. She’s bald as a pig under that wig.”
Lena inhaled deeply and swished a stray curl out of her eyes. “Let’s just order.” She poured water from her glass into the palm of her hand, using it to smooth out her hair enough to pull it back into a ponytail with a holder she kept on her wrist.
They ordered two bowls of ice cream before scanning the other patrons. Most were retirees with nothing better to do than drink coffee and gossip.
A raisin-like elderly man sat on a bar stool nursing a cup of coffee. The newspaper spread out before him read, Another Fisherman Missing, Total Now 10.
The young man next to him said, “I’m telling you there is something in the lake. I went fishing yesterday and saw this huge shadow in the water.” He held his arms far apart for emphasis.
“It’s just a school of fish,” the old man said.
“It wasn’t a school of fish,” retorted the young one.
The diner grew silent as they listened to his tale. He described the cloud swimming toward him, bumping his boat, then swimming off, only to return and erupt in a furious swirl of rocking waves.
“I had to crank up the motor and leave before I capsized,” the young man finished.
Grumbles of doubt spread like melted butter as questions from patrons were tossed about.
A sharp voice rose above the ruckus. “Stay out of the lake or die.”
Heads snapped to the back corner where an old lady sat in a booth. Lena squinted at her but didn’t recognize the figure. The lady’s long, straight, silver hair sat in contrast to her wrinkly, dark skin. She wore silver bangles up to her elbows, and large silver earrings hung from her drooping earlobes. She lit a corn cob pipe, inhaled, and ignored the stunned silence that swept through the diner.
“Ma’am, this is a non-smoking diner,” Mabel said sternly, placing hands on her ample hips.
The lady blew a curly ribbon of silver-blue smoke. Eyes darted from the woman to Mabel and back again. No one moved. Tension swelled as the two stared at each other.
Mabel cleared her throat. “I said, No. Smoking.”
The stranger blew another ribbon of smoke. “Humph. Tell the police to close the lake permanently.”
Mabel muttered, “Crazy woman,” and stomped off to refill the coffee cups of patrons pretending not to watch the standoff.
The twins exchanged looks. Beneath the heavy scent of tobacco, they could smell a secret. They dropped their fudge covered spoons to the table, slid out of the booth, and walked over to the old woman.
Lena pushed Ella forward.
“Ma’am?” Ella’s voice quivered. She grabbed her sister’s hand. “We were wondering what you meant about the lake.” She took a step backward. No one ever defied Mabel. Yet, this woman did. They felt a sense of awe wrapped in a layer of fear.
The lady’s sharp black eyes surveyed the twins. “How old are you?” She took a puff on her pipe.
“Old enough.” Lena straightened her shoulders in false courage. “What’s your name?”
The old woman grinned, revealing several missing front teeth. “Eudora. What do you care about the lake?”
Lena edged closer jutting out her jaw. “It’s summer. We like to swim in the lake.”
Eudora leaned forward to examine the pair closely. “Y’all don’t look like swimmers to me. More like indoor girls.” She chewed the end of her pipe. “Fine, I’ll tell you. The police won’t find anything because they don’t know where to look. Do you know what Asgina means?”
They shook their heads.
“It means ghost. Ghost Lake. Years ago, before the whites moved in, this area was home to a large Chickasaw settlement. A great center of trade. The hunting and fishing were abundant.” She paused for a smoke. “Until the ghost fish came and killed many strong warriors.”
One corner of Lena’s mouth cocked in doubt. “Hold on a minute. If a creature like that was in the lake, we would have known about it by now.”
Eudora shook her head and wagged a bony finger at Lena. “What, you only believe what’s on TV?” She rolled her eyes before continuing. “Legend says the ghost fish only emerge when the lake god is angry.”
“Lake god!” The twins exchanged a look of disbelief.
“Just wait. They will kill again. Stay out of the lake.”
The girls returned to their booth and settled in, periodically glancing back at Eudora. Ella removed a crumpled map from her pocket. She smoothed it flat with the palms of her hands. “Dad has the beach blocked off here. The western edge is too muddy. We’d never make it past the bog.” She drew her finger to the northern edge of the lake. “I think we should try crossing here.”
“What are you talking about?” Lena asked.
A wide grin spread across Ella’s face. “Ghost fish. It’s brilliant. If we hike to where the fishermen disappeared, we can find them ... the ghost fish not the fishermen. That’d be gross.”
Lena rolled her eyes. “It would be helpful if we knew where the fishermen disappeared.” She took a bite of melted chocolate fudge ripple with bacon before continuing, “What do you hope to find?”
“Think about it.” Ella’s pale blue eyes sparkled. “If we can find these ghost fish and take a picture of them, maybe we can get on one of those cable shows. That would be so cool.”
Lena sighed, “Or we could just sound like idiots. We don’t even know if it’s one fish or a slew. Besides, no one can prove Nessy is real. Annnnnd people are still fighting about that hairy guy up north. What makes you think we can prove there’s a monster in Asgina Lake?”
“Have a little faith, sis. Something’s out there. You heard that guy at the counter.” She pointed toward the fisherman still talking. “Why else would all those men drown?”
“Beer,” Lena said flatly. She crossed her thin arms over her Doctor Who T-shirt.
Ella screwed up her face before responding, “Granted, beer may have something to do with the situation, but it doesn’t explain the red marks on Mr. Tony’s wrist.”
“It does if he was murdered.”
Ella slapped her hands together. “Exactly. If that’s the case, Dad will solve the murder. If not the case, it’s up to us. The added bonus is that the adventure will give you something to write about for the summer essay you’re so worried about.”
Lena scratched her head. An errant curl broke free and gave the illusion of a golden question mark above her head. “Fine. I’ll give you one night. If we don’t find the monster by dawn, that’s it. Let’s be clear, I’m only going to keep you out of trouble and for the possibility of having a good story for school.”
“Deal.”
At home, Lena grabbed her backpack then added her hiking essentials: extra socks, binoculars, and bug spray. Along with firecrackers. Lena loved the thumb-sized M-90 firecrackers and never went camping without them. They were perfect noise makers to keep bears away.
“I borrowed Aunt Ellen’s phone,” Ella said as she walked in, dropping her pack onto the bed.
“You’re diggin’ us in deeper, sis. When Dad finds out you stole Aunt Ellen’s phone, we’ll be grounded forever.”
“Borrowed,” Ella repeated. She wiggled the phone in the air for emphasis. “If Dad would get with the times and buy us phones I wouldn’t have to borrow Aunt Ellen’s. I packed a lighter, water, and food. You ready?”
Lena zipped her bag closed before slipping it on to her back. “Let’s go.”
They cut across the high school practice field and into the woods. The sun still sat high in the sky; nightfall would be hours away. Lena listened to music from her iPod, bobbing her head in time. Ella tracked their progress on her map, making little tick marks for every mile they passed. When they reached the small gas station on the edge of town, the thick woods beyond were unknown territory.
Ella looked at the dense pine woods then back at her map. “According to this, if we head south we should hit the lake. There’s a cabin with a pier along the northern edge.”
“Cabin?” Lena took the map and scanned it. “You mean we have to walk past the Indian mounds? You didn’t tell me that.” Her voice rose to a shrill pitch.
“I was afraid you’d chicken out.”
Lena dropped her gaze, kicked some rocks, and grumbled, “Hand me Auntie’s phone.”
Ella dug the phone from her pocket before handing it over to her sister.
Lena tapped on the screen then held it for Ella to see. “Now, we have a compass. I’ve also downloaded a GPS app that should tell us when we get off track. Hopefully, it’s smart enough to direct us to the lake. Let’s go before I change my mind.”
“Wait.” Ella took a moment to spray them both down with bug repellent. “I don’t want Zika Virus.”
Lena coughed as the chemical mist attacked her senses. She waved a hand in front of her face to clear the air. “That smell will keep your monster away.”
They followed a winding path through the thick pine forest. The deeper they went, the darker it got. The ground morphed from lush green grass to prickly weeds in sand. Tiny sand spurs clung to their socks like pom-poms. Small saw palmettos fanned the space between the pines.
The deer trail opened into a small clearing with a squat mound. It looked like a giant had slapped a pyramid’s point and squashed it flat. A small path ran along the bottom edge. Tall moss-covered oaks hung over the area. Sunlight fought to reach the ground. Deep shadows clung to the mound, adding a haunted feeling. The retreating sun bathed the area in a gentle golden light. Ella and Lena slowed and watched from the corner of their eyes. The mound stood three tiers tall and finished with a small, fat square at the top. Kudzu vines worked hard to cover the area, but enough space let them see the stairs leading to the top.
The twins skirted the edge of the clearing, giving the structure a wide berth.
Most people believed the mound was haunted and stayed away. Ella stopped, gazing at the looming mass of grass-covered clay in front of her. A large crow landed on the lower ledge. He pecked at the surface and squawked as he stretched his black-satin wings. Ella turned, inching toward the mound.
“Ella,” Lena’s voice squeaked as she whispered. “Ella, what are you doing? We need to stay on the trail.” Her gaze darted around the shadows. A toad croaked. She jumped and ran to her sister, grabbing her arm.
“Just wait a second. I want to get a better look.” Ella bent down, picked up a pebble, and tossed it at the bird.
Cawwwwa! He squawked before flying away.
“What’s to see? It’s a pile of dirt.” Lena’s eyes pleaded to leave.
“Then why are you scared?”
Lena straightened her back. “I’m. Not. Scared.”
Ella wiggled away from Lena’s grip. She ran her hand along the lowest wall of the mound and followed it several feet away from Lena. “I just thought maybe there would be carvings or something on it.”
“They weren’t Mayan. They didn’t do carvings. This was probably just a trash pile.” Lena scuttled up to Ella, close enough to feel her body heat. Swallowing her fear, she helped Ella pull away leaves and vines from a section of the base, exposing the hard rock beneath.
Ella tapped it with her knuckles. “It sounds solid.”
“Of course, it is. How else would it have survived all this time against floods and hurricanes? Are you ready to go now? We have a monster to catch.”
“I just expected it to be packed dirt.” Shrugging her shoulders, Ella continued to follow the perimeter of the base. “Do you think that’s the same crow?” She pointed at the black bird resting on another section of the mound.
“No. It’s a different bird. Has to be. Nothing to see.” Lena threw a rock at the bird but missed.
Cawwa! He hollered in contempt.
“Look, Lena, there’s an opening.” Ella jerked back the cover of kudzu, revealing a tiny opening, no larger than a small bathroom window. She dropped her backpack to the ground and took out the lighter.
“What are you doing?” demanded Lena.
“I remember Dad telling us about this once. He came out here with his scout troop. He said the walls are painted inside. Come on.”
Lena dropped her bag next to Ella’s and scanned the shadows for any sign of movement. They scrunched down and crawled through the door. The small entryway was pitch-black compared to the outside world. Ella flicked the lighter on and ran her hands across the walls. Each wall was covered with drawings depicting life of the local indigenous people. A few still had remains of paint. They followed the wall until it came to a dead-end.
Ella used Auntie’s phone to snap a few pictures. “I bet we could use this in history class next year.” Her voice rang with a hint of laughter.
Lena wasn’t listening. She stared at a series of etchings in the corner. The edges were rough like they were made in a hurry. She ran her fingers over the pictographs of men with spears on the edge of the water. “Look at this.” She didn’t wait for her sister to respond, but grabbed her by the neck and tugged.
“Ouch!” Ella pulled away, rubbing her neck.
“What does this look like?”
“Fishing.”
“With spears? Look closer. I bet this is our lake. Look at the water.” Lena pointed to a section of the wall.
Ella held the phone closer for extra light. “Um, it could be the lake.” She squinted at the picture. “I don’t know what that is.” The etching showed something below the water. It was big, undefined, and surrounded by men with spears holding torches.
“That’s your lake monster,” Lena said.
“First off, he’s not mine. Second, it looks like a kid scratched it into the wall.”
“Maybe,” Lena admitted with a shrug. “I thought you wanted to find this thing.”
“I do. I just don’t know that this helps. Come on, let’s go. The dust is making it hard to breathe.”
Once back outside in the fresh air, Ella checked the app to make sure the dot still followed the blue line. “There should be a campsite just past this ridge. I say we eat a snack when we get there.”
Lena mumbled agreement. They walked up the ridge before descending into a small pasture. A large tree trunk rested near the center where a rock ring marked the camp’s fire pit. “A camp circle.” Ella unzipped her backpack, fished out snacks before sitting on the trunk. She held out a stick of alligator jerky. “Want some?”
“In a minute, I want to look around.” A cool breeze blew through the camp. Lena shivered. “Something feels off.” She walked past the stone circle. On the clearing’s edge, she found the remains of a camp—sleeping bag, utensils, and an ice chest—all set up, waiting for the camper to return with a string of fresh caught fish. Lena ran a finger across the ice chest leaving a trail through a thick layer of dirt. She walked back to Ella and the tree trunk. “I think someone is already at this campsite. I found supplies on the other side of that live oak.” She shivered again.
Ella held up the bag of jerky.
Lena took a piece and chewed on it.
“Really? I don’t think they’d mind if we stayed for a minute,” Ella said.
“The camp looks freshly made, but old at the same time. There’s a layer of dirt on everything.”
Ella kicked the debris in the fire circle before placing her hand over it. “It doesn’t look like they made a fire recently. The coals are cold.”
“Maybe they just got here.”
“Maybe they never left.” Ella grinned, winking at Lena.
“Knock it off. Come on, let’s keep going. I want this over with.”
Ella read the map. “It’s less than a quarter-mile to the lake.”
They walked down a well-worn path from the campsite to the lake. The trees opened to jagged blades of grass and a darkening sky. A muggy breeze blew off the lake, carrying the scent of decay. “I’m suffocating in this heat. I could use a swim.”
“No! We can’t go swimming,” Lena said panicked.
“I know. It’s just hot.” Ella looked up and down the empty lake. Not a single swimmer or boater could be seen.
“Now, what do we do?”
Ella wrinkled her face as she chewed the corner of her lip. After a few moments, she pointed at the pier. “Maybe we can see something from there.”
It took them a few minutes to pick their way over to the pier. There, they waited for what seemed like hours. Impatient to see something. Anything. Ella started throwing pebbles in the water while Lena read comic books.
Finally, Lena broke the silence, “Your plan has a flaw.”
“What’s that?”
“We don’t have a boat. No one has drowned except fishermen in boats.”
Ella frowned. “I didn’t think of that. Maybe we do have to get in the water.”
“Yeah—no. It’ll be dark soon. I’m going to go make a fire on the beach.” Lena walked down the pier and collected driftwood to build a fire. Camping was their dad’s favorite weekend activity. Tonight, Lena was thankful for his insistence on learning basic survival skills. She leaned over and blew on the dry pine straw, fanning the small flame. A large splash broke her concentration.
Her twin was doing the backstroke toward the center of Asgina Lake.
“Ella! Alligators live in the lake.” Lena jumped up and ran to the pier. “Get out of the water!”
Ella paused mid-stroke to say, “It’s the only way to be sure.”
“Daddy’ll kill me if you get eaten by a gator. Get out!” Lena stomped her foot for emphasis. A pile of clothes sat discarded nearby. Ella had planned this all along. She was wearing her swimsuit.
Ella stopped swimming. “Do you see anything?”
Lena grumbled, pulled her binoculars from her pack, and scanned the lake. “Nothing.” She moved her head as she looked through the lenses. “Wait. I do see something.” She focused the apparatus. A large cloud floating beneath the surface was headed in their direction. “What is that?” In the setting sun, the cloud became difficult to see. “Get out! Something’s headed toward us.”
Ella freestyle swam as fast as she could. She grabbed hold of the wooden ladder and wiped the water from her eyes before taking hold of Lena’s offered hand. Lena hoisted her sister onto the wooden planks. Ella hopped up and grabbed the binoculars. “Where is it?”
Lena pointed toward the horizon. “Do you see it?”
Ella adjusted the lenses. “Maybe, it looks like a black cloud.” She set the binoculars down. “I don’t see anything above the water,” she said squinting.
Without warning, the cloud melted away.
“What happened?”
“It vanished.” Lena sprinted the length of the pier back to their supplies.
Ella yanked open her pack, withdrew a raw hot dog, and tossed it twenty feet in the air. It arched and plopped into the water, not far from the pier. She threw another one closer to them. The twins bent over the water, watching intently.
“There!” Lena yelled, pointing mid-way to the horizon.
A black snake, almost three feet long, swam on the surface toward the hot dog. Another, followed by a dozen more, went after the sacrifice. Scales on the snakes’ backs glowed a silvery white. The gentle glide became a whirlpool of churning water white with froth.
“That can’t be it. Those are snakes not fish,” Lena said.
“What kind of snake? I’ve never seen them before. They have fish scales.”
Lena leaned on a light pole over the water for a better look. The lake’s surface stilled to glass once again. The sun retreated, leaving only twilight and the golden glow of the fire on the beach.
“Ghost fish,” Lena mumbled.
“What?”
“That’s what Eudora called them. Ghost fish.”
“But they’re snakes not fish. Snakes can’t drown a man. They’re no bigger than a water moccasin,” Ella said, pointing toward the lake.
The water beneath the pier churned. White foam erupted in great plumes, covering the surface. The pier shook. Lena wobbled, unable to keep her feet, she fell to the planks. Ella clung to the light pole for balance. A black snake curled around the pole, its silver scales glistened as it lashed out at Ella. The snake grabbed her by the foot, yanking her hard.
“Ahhh!” Ella screamed. “Lena!” The snake tightened its grip. Her piercing scream echoed across the lake.
Lena jumped up and ran to Ella. She grabbed her arm, fighting to keep her sister on the pier. The snake fought back. The water churned more, and a loud hum like an engine came from the water. Ella’s body inched toward the water as the creature pulled. Lena braced her feet against the light pole. “Ella, you’re slipping!”
“Fire!” Ella gasped. “The mound showed fire.”
Lena’s eyes widened in understanding. She glanced at the fire just on shore. Was there time? Firecrackers! “Ella, hold on.” She wrapped Ella’s hands around the pole, then took the few steps to her bag. Ella screamed. She was barely holding on now. She would be in the water in seconds.
Lena grabbed the firecrackers and returned to the water’s edge, ready to sprint when she had the chance. She took out three M-90 firecrackers, twisted the fuses together, and lit them all at once. She held the flaming tubes of black powder over the water. The illumination gave the girls a clear view of the snakes slithering beneath the surface. Their silver scales gleamed. Lena dropped the firecrackers. A deafening crack ripped across the lake. The snakes nearest the flame scattered, and their grip loosened around Ella’s ankle just enough for her to tighten her hold on the light pole. “When I drop the next firecracker, Ella, wrap as much of your body around the pole as you can. If more snakes get a hold of you—”
“I know,” Ella cried.
Lena lit three more tubes then dropped them directly beneath Ella. As soon as she released the firecrackers she ran. Bang. It only took seconds to clear the pier. She slid in the sand as she halted near the fire. She yanked a flaming branch from the edge of the fire and bolted back to her sister slowing only a little to keep the flames from extinguishing.
Standing on the pier’s edge, Lena held the torch over the water. The snakes swam together, morphing into a single entity. A large head rose from the water, connected to a long neck. Each snake was visible, wiggling in unison until it loomed over the twins as one monster. The watermelon-sized head leaned toward them. A hundred eyes stared at Lena as a tentacle of snakes reached for them. The grip on Ella’s leg tightened, and one solid jerk pulled her free from the pier. One strained hand held tight to the pole, she shrieked in terror.
Lena swallowed hard before tossing the torch at the beast’s center where it gripped Ella’s leg.
Ella unleashed a yell worthy of a B-movie scream queen as the flame hit her ankle. The monster bellowed before separating into individual snakes and letting go. Lena grabbed her twin’s hand and hoisted her onto the pier where they collapsed. The water erupted in a swell. An angry rumble shook the platform as snakes threw themselves onto the pier, attempting to grab their escaping prey. Lena pulled Ella up, and they ran for the safety of the campfire.
Upon reaching the fire, Lena whirled and held her twin tight as her eyes scanned Asgina Lake for any sign of the ghost fish. There were none. The lake was dead calm.
“Dad’ll never believe this.” Ella whimpered, holding a shirt to her burned ankle. Above the burn was a series of circular marks matching those on Mr. Tony’s corpse.
“True. But now I have an awesome story for the summer vacation essay when school starts.”
“Yeah, but do you know anything about appeasing vengeful lake gods?”
Ella’s body relaxed as she laughed. Lena took the phone and sent a quick text to her father. There was nothing to do now but wait.
Officer Randell grimaced at the phone in his hand. His instincts told him his girls were up to something, but he didn’t have the time to follow through. Now, he had no choice. Lena’s text was short: Dad-Ella injured. At pier on Lake. Stay out of water. It took him only a few minutes to grab Joe and head out on ATVs. He didn’t know what happened, but his emotions went from worry to angry and back to worry.
Within thirty minutes he cleared the tree line. He slowed to a halt and searched the horizon. A bright orange glow grabbed his attention. “There they are,” he said pointing at the campfire. He kicked the ATV into gear, following the edge of the lake toward the camp. As they approached, Lena jumped up and down and waved her arms. Officer Randell pulled to a stop between his daughters and the lake. He tossed his helmet down, grabbed the first aid kit, and hurried to his daughters.
“Dad, I am so glad to see you,” Lena said, grabbing him in a hug. She released him as he moved toward Ella.
“What happened?” he asked, kissing her on the head.
Fat tears rolled from Ella’s eyes as she pulled the shirt from her ankle. An angry red burn covered a section of her lower leg, mingled with circular marks. “I’m sorry Dad. We just wanted to find the monster.”
His brow wrinkled. “Joe, call the station. Have the doctor meet us there. Ella has a burn.”
“Yes, sir.”
Officer Randell smiled at Ella. “It’ll be okay. It doesn’t look that bad. How did you get burned?”
Lena stepped from the shadows and explained about Eudora’s story and their trip to the lake. “We just wanted to find the monster. The marks on her leg match those of Mr. Tony.”
Randell turned the flashlight beam on her ankle. He sighed. “There are no such things as monsters or lake gods. What did this?” his voice was sharp.
“I told you. A snake wrapped around her ankle and tried to pull her into the water,” said Lena.
“Snakes don’t do that,” he said.
Ella grabbed her father by the arm. “Dad, you have to close the lake. We’re telling the truth. The snakes are afraid of fire, but that’s it.” Great tears slid down her face.
“Joe, take Lena back. I’ll take Ella.”
“Yes, sir. Dispatch said the doctor will be at the department waiting on us.”
“Thanks. I’m going to take a quick look around.” He picked Ella up and placed her on the ATV, strapping her in, before walking to the pier. He scanned his flashlight up and down the lake. He wanted to believe his daughters but the idea was insane. Still. The marks on Ella’s leg matched those found on Mr. Tony. His feet fell heavily on the pier, echoing off the water beneath. As much trouble as the twins got into, lying wasn’t something they normally did. He bent to pick up the backpack and comic books that were strewn across the pier. Swamp Thing #1 was on top. He stuffed it all in the bag. His forehead wrinkled as he pulled out a pack of open hot dogs. Clearly the girls had planned on a campout. He walked to the edge of the pier and dumped out the remaining hot dogs.
A jumble of screams erupted from the shore. Ella and Lena waved their arms frantically. Randell couldn’t make out what they said, but he could tell from their agitation, something was wrong. He slung the backpack on his shoulder, took a last look around, and started walking toward the shore. Pale yellow circles of light from the lampposts guided his feet. The hair on the back of his neck stood on end.
“Randell, get off the pier!” Joe’s voice broke through the radio attached to Randell’s shoulder.
He looked up to see Joe waving his arms at the end of the pier. His cop senses were going crazy. He could feel something behind him. A strange humming noise mixed with splashing water filled the lake. Instinct took over. He ran as fast as he could, refusing to give in to the urge to look behind him. The pier shook from vibrations of something heavy hitting the wooden planks.
Joe took out his service pistol and fired. Randell dove for the sand and rolled over on impact before sitting up. He stared at the pier. All he saw was churning white water.
“Did you hit it?”
“No. I don’t know,” said Joe. “What was that?”
“I didn’t see it. What did it look like?” Randell asked.
Joe swallowed hard, looking from Randell to the twins who now knelt next to their father, and the lake. “I don’t know. It was like a giant snake or something. I don’t know.”
Randell grabbed the radio from his shoulder. “I want Lake Asgina closed until further notice. Nothing and no one is allowed in or on the water.”
He had no idea what was in the lake or even how to get rid of it. The one thing he knew was no one else would be attacked. He would keep it closed for as long as it took. He hugged his daughters tightly, thankful they were safe. His mind raced with what could have happened.
Randell kissed each girl on the head. “I’m sorry I didn’t believe you. I never thought something like that could be out there. I....” Unable to finish the sentence he pulled them closer as his eyes, scanned the calm surface of the lake.

Skin Deep

based on a Scandinavian folktale
In the village of Anhof, the alehouse was filled to bursting, and not one man in five could hear himself think.
The problem of the king’s eldest son was well-known, of course. The curse was held to be a famous one, although, since not a single villager here had ever ventured farther than to the yearly market held at Liffing, only five miles east, it is unclear what their definition of “famous” might have been.
This characterization, moreover, did not deter them from recounting to each other the sad tale of the king’s feckless queen, who had not seemed to be able to bear any children for some years after the marriage was solemnized and had, in the end, resorted to seeking out a certain wise woman who lived high up in the mountains, and who was known to have strange, arcane powers in such matters.
The charm’s instructions had seemed quite clear. The queen was to eat two onions, while standing in a sacred grove in the full light of the turning moon, and then walk backwards three times around the carved, hogbacked stone in the grove’s centre. After which, she was under strict instruction to make her way back to the castle, speaking to no one, and to join her husband in their bed.
In due course, the queen had given birth to twins, and that was when the stories split apart. Had she eaten the onions peeled or unpeeled, and had the witch withheld this vital detail? Had she inadvertently uttered a word, sometime between the carefully enacted ritual and her bedchamber door?
The more charitable held to the view that the witch had purposefully not said whether the onions had to be peeled or not, and that if a woman stubbed her toe and swore under her breath as she walked past the guard at the door, it would be unfair of anyone to be cursed, since she had not spoken those words to any being but herself.
The mean-minded said that it was just like the woman to have not managed a simple task without error.
It did not, in the end, matter too terribly much to anyone what exactly had gone wrong. The point was, something had.
One of the boys was pronounced as everything a king’s son should be. He was utterly unblemished, had the requisite number of fingers and toes, and he looked out upon the world, from the very first, with a clear and untroubled gaze of lambent blue.
The other, the elder—well, for a long time, the adage “least said, soonest mended” was held to be the wisest course, especially if one wanted to avoid arrest and consignment to a dungeon.
But people will talk. Late at night, in the alehouses, a traveling tinker might mutter a word or three. A couple of shepherd boys might murmur to each other what that tinker had said. And down by the river, when they went to do the washing in the spring, the women might relay what little they knew.
A monstrosity. Scaled and serpentine; fanged and taloned; and dangerous, most of all. It demanded raw flesh at every mealtime—no, not merely raw: living flesh. A Great Wyrm, some whispered, but wingless, and with legs, able to walk and to speak.
And to kill: his strength was almost immediately legendary.
Not a man, and yet with a man’s clear intelligence, and, as the years went by, with a man’s desires, apparently.
At first, it had been sorrowfully hoped that the aberration would not long survive. After all, babes with deformities did not frequently live much past the first months, even when they were not an utter abomination. Later on, it was merely an existence to be carefully ignored, both out of kindness and self-preservation.
And then, just as the king had concluded a very worthy betrothal for his younger son, the problem had reared its scaly head and demanded that the rule of law be respected. It was not to be borne, said the elder royal offspring, that the ancient statute requiring the younger son remain single until the elder had been safely married off be set aside. He would not countenance this. He could not.
He demanded his bride.
And so, where once the tale had been a slightly pleasurable if somewhat terrifying matter for discreet gossip, it now formed a material and immediate problem for every merchant, farmer, or craftsman in the country.
In a well-appointed throne room, decorated with embroidered hangings depicting various hunting scenes, and laid with a floor of alternating black and grey slate flagging, the king was harassing his counselors for an answer to this most pressing dilemma.
Strewn about the floor was a veritable snowfall of parchment sheets. All of them had been copied out in perfect, ornate hands, and all of them bore impressive seals and ribbons.
And all of them, in the most polite and courteous of words and impressive phrases, couched amid expressions of sincere but heartfelt regret, contained at their hub, a simple word.
No.
No, they would not, for any amount of gold plate or trade concessions, send their royal daughters to be wedded to the eldest son of King Ranwulf. Nor would they allow the child of any prince, duke or earl to be sacrificed in this endeavor. Indeed, or so the king saw, reading between the lines, they would not attempt to suborn any lesser or especially impoverished member of their nobility or gentry to immolate their daughters in this cause.
Just, no.
“Well,” said one counselor, clearing his throat, “Well, we shall have to think of something else.”
There was a moment of uncomfortable silence, while everyone tried to think of what “something else” might consist of.
“Perhaps,” said the queen, diffidently, “someone might be found among our own people? Oh, I know,” she said, catching her husband’s impatient glare, “We can’t expect any of the nobility to reconsider. But it might be that some of the—er—less well-to-do might attempt it? For a price?”
Ranwulf opened his mouth to object, and then snapped it closed again.
She was right, really, and he knew it. What place had family pride in this? Prince Lind certainly did not care. He had never placed even the slightest value on his family’s honour or ancestors.
From the start, Ranwulf had known that his son’s demand for a wife had been born of bitterness, resentment and malice, and the outrage that was his eldest son had, moreover, made it plain to all of them that his enormous strength and stamina, not to mention his poisonous fangs, would be put to terrible use should he be thwarted. He had said a great many things, some of which had been naked threats, but the one thing he had not said was that he expected a royal bride.
Just a bride.
Two days later, the proclamation went out.
In Anhof, as elsewhere, the king’s words were greeted with disbelief.
The queen’s original suggestion had, as was to be expected, been modified by unanimous consent to form more than a request.
It was, in fact, more of a decree than a proclamation. Having come to the sticking point, the wise counselors had transformed her idea into an edict requiring each and every community to forward, with haste, one eligible, unmarried female to the capital, there to be presented to His Royal Highness for inspection as a prospective bride.
The wording was careful, but not a single villager in Anhof, at least, was in any doubt. Theirs was not to reason why. Theirs was to sacrifice some girl—any girl—on the altar of the kingdom’s future.
And there wasn’t a cursed thing they could do about it.
The proclamation did not spell out any details of the retribution in store, should they fail in this endeavor. It was unnecessary to do so, since the villagers’ imaginations could supply prospects far more terrifying than any open words could have done.
It had induced consternation, of course, and fury, and no little anguish.
How could they send a child of theirs into certain and horrific death?
How could they not?
And, in a scene repeated in every corner of the realm, names were slyly, or diffidently, or ruthlessly offered up.
All of which, in Anhof, had the natural effect of causing more discord and heartache than any other local dispute ever had. The tanner was accused of trying to settle old scores. The blacksmith claimed that Weaver Elspeth was merely trying to clear the field for her own daughter to marry the reeve’s son, by suggesting that the smith’s eldest was admirably suited for a life at court.
It was a set of quarrels that went long into the night.
The trouble was, though, as the alewife eventually pointed out, name who they might, there was no guarantee that the woman selected would be a willing participant.
“You can put a mule to harness,” she said, sagely, “but even with the whip, there’s no saying they’ll pull your wagon, is there?”
This had the unlooked-for effect of silencing everyone. In their minds, they suddenly, separately, tried to imagine telling some girl—not their own daughter, of course, but some girl, any girl—that she had been singled out to save their village’s skin by being sent off to an unspecified but obviously bloody fate.
“Perhaps,” said the reeve, “Perhaps one of them would consent… willingly?”
On the following morning, when every unmarried woman, flanked by her family, had assembled themselves on the village green, and when they had listened to a rather pompous speech begging them to consider the future of those families if not the entire village, the reeve was met, not unexpectedly, by a nervous silence.
No girl in Anhof had come unprepared.
All of them had known beforehand what would be asked.
All of them, in their suddenly virtuous hearts, had resolved that this was the one time where their parents’ impassioned plea or stern order must be respected.
All, perhaps, except one.
Katya was not the sort of girl that anyone ever took much notice of.
She was neither pretty nor plain. Her hair was unremarkably brown, as were her eyes, and her height was neither so tall as to occasion questions about “the weather up there” nor so small as to be referred to as “the little one.” She wasn’t outspoken or quarrelsome, and no one, if they thought of her at all, which was seldom, had ever said she was bold or courageous.
She was simply a nonentity, even in her own family, where the only time she was noticed was in the event of an omission of some chore or task being performed, and even then, her mother frequently had to think hard to recall her name.
It was no wonder, then, that when her daughter stepped calmly forward and said, in confident, untroubled tones, “I’ll do it,” Katya’s mother, for several seconds, did not react at all.
Moments later, as a sort of relieved and grateful sigh flowed out from the gathered folk, her mother’s brow wrinkled slightly in an effort to collect her thoughts and said, rather disjointedly, “No—no. You mustn’t.”
It was too late. The reeve had grabbed the girl’s hand and pulled her forward, and the blacksmith’s wife was patting her on her shoulder with approval. Several of the people present made shift to comfort the grieving mother, but this was a short-lived effort. Katya’s mother watched as the carter helped the girl into his wagon, in great haste to be off before the chit thought better of her offer, and merely asked fretfully if anyone knew if Katya had fed the chickens that morning.
The deed was done. Anhof’s future was saved.
Katya, if she had thought about it at all, had thought merely that at least she would get to see a real city before she died. The reeve, as an inducement, had mentioned a sum of actual coin for the courageous sacrifice, in order that she might buy some new, fashionable clothes and present herself nicely before her doom. This alone might not have been enough to sway her, but with the mention of an additional payment to the girl’s family, and the hint of future considerations, coupled with the fact that she was well aware that not only were her marital prospects in Anhof virtually nil but that her continued existence formed a bit of a block to her three younger siblings’ chances as well, had induced her to step forward.
But in addition, Katya had noticed that even quite ordinary happenings that Anhof was witness to had the habit of becoming massively exaggerated, sometimes to mythic proportions, and that consequently, it was more than probable that the tale of the first-born prince’s deformities had been embellished and added upon so much that the reality was very likely quite benign.
This belief stood her in good stead through the four-day journey to the capital, where she was installed at a hostelry known to the carter, although she had had to jog his elbow twice to remind him of why they were there, and a third time for him to belatedly recall her name during the introductions.
In the morning, after several repeated questions and a recounting or three of why she was here, she was directed to a good seamstress and various other merchants and began to array herself for the upcoming ordeal.
If she had had dreams of elegant finery, these had by then been put to rest.
The city was cold—much, much colder than Anhof. Damp winds rattled her bedchamber windows, and chill fog dogged her steps as she went down the crowded streets to consult with the recommended dressmaker. She couldn’t stop shivering, her nose was permanently red, and by the end of her first evening in the city, the tips of her fingers had started to turn blue.
Instead of the shining silks and gossamer skirts of her imagination, she had chosen heavy linen and serviceable woolens: layer upon layer of them, from unfrilled drawers and a number of scratchy petticoats to two high-necked gowns, a close-buttoned jacket, an oversized shawl and a demi-cloak with a fur-lined hood. She bought thick wool stockings at a stall at the end of the road, sighed over a pair of thin kidskin gloves and paid a quarter of their price for roughly-knitted mittens instead.
In fact, so consuming was the need to somehow, finally, get warm again, that it was not until the appointed morning arrived that Katya really gave her future very much thought.
By dint of three requests the night before and another in the morning, they had brought her some hot water to wash with, and she gritted her teeth and slipped out of her nightdress, trying not to notice the gooseflesh her skin had become.
She began to dress: first her old shift, then the new underthings. All the petticoats, and the thick socks over top of her old, much-darned ones. Both gowns and the jacket came next, and, after slipping her feet into her new boots, she wrapped the shawl, muffler-like, around her shoulders.
She didn’t bother to look in the mirror. Her vague dream of beautiful clothes lifting her finally out of the limbo she had always occupied had lost out to her desperate need to not feel as though icicles were stabbing her all day long. If she had been offered a funeral pyre, she would have jumped in without a thought.
She arrived at the castle gates on foot, since she hadn’t been able to catch anyone’s attention long enough to bespeak a carriage, a cart or even a tinker’s wagon. The wind had reddened her cheeks and she had acquired a case of the sniffles.
Even then, the enormity of her choice failed to sink in.
There were plenty of other girls here, and not all of them were weeping or looking frightened. Not all of them had the look of potential spinsters, resigned to their sacrificial fate. Some of them had apparently weighed the fireside whispers against the possibility of becoming a princess and decided the risk might be worth it. These girls looked well-to-do. They looked excited and confident.
They looked warm.
Katya shivered and drew her cloak more closely around her, huddling into the fur of the hood. Inside, hopefully, there would be fires lit, or charcoal braziers, and the windows shuttered against the chill. She wished they’d get on with this.
The King and Queen came out onto a balcony, and waved graciously. After that, an old man in a dark blue cloak came out and made a speech of thanks, which Katya heard very little of. The wind had picked up again and was blowing the words away.
Finally, the first hopeful bride-to-be was led inside, while the rest of them, commoners all and therefore not worthy of civilized comforts, waited in the courtyard.
Katya’s toes turned icy.
There was a sudden scream of anguish, and then a fearful silence.
A guard appeared and motioned to the next girl in line.
The mood in the courtyard had changed. A few of the more confident ones had tried to leave, but the gates were locked and guarded. Several girls had fainted. Many were weeping in terror, and even the ones who, like Katya, had maintained their composure, looked more than apprehensive.
But despite her outward calm, Katya was fighting a rising wave of fear. It seemed the rumours had not lied, not this time, and she had, in a moment of vanity and recklessness, doomed herself.
The line moved her slowly, methodically, inexorably, to her fate. She had lost whatever false courage that had propped her up through the last few days, and she was now not even slightly different than any of the other frightened, despairing girls who had thrown caution to the winds here.
And she was still very, very cold.
And then, suddenly, as if by magic, there was no one in front of her, and a stony-faced guard had grabbed her wrist and was pulling her up the shallow steps and pushing her through the great oaken doors.
Her first thought was that for royalty, they were certainly stingy with even minor comforts.
Her second thought was that rumour had, in this instance, actually been kind.
There was only one small brazier in the room, and beyond that lay the most horrific of sights.
He was coiled up, an enormous snake of a man-thing, iridescent scales shimmering in the pale light from the two lamps set on a table beside him. He was watching her with those cold, unblinking eyes, as black as coal, and she could hear her own breath rasping in her throat as she fought down a scream.
He opened his mouth to reveal long, yellowed fangs, dripping with ichor, and then she really would have screamed, just like the others before her, but she had no breath for it. All that came out of her was a sort of kittenish meow of grief and panic. She shut her mouth and swallowed very hard.
For a moment, they looked across at each other, silently, and as that moment lengthened, Katya became aware of something rather astonishing.
He saw her.
He was looking directly at her, which was a somewhat unusual occurrence for her. Most of the time, people’s eyes tended to take her in as a peripheral afterthought, immediately discounted as being of no interest or use to them, but Prince Lind’s eyes were most assuredly and unwaveringly on her.
He saw her.
Not as simply the next offering in this deadly performance of tragedy, but as a single, unique being.
He saw her.
It wasn’t that she found her courage, real or false, at that point. It wasn’t as if she felt any relief—quite the reverse, because she could read in his eyes that she was not, even so, precisely a person to him. She was prey, she was a toy, she was a weapon in some battle she did not even begin to understand, and this frightened her far more than his actual appearance.
It was just that being noticed was so new and alien a concept that her fear took a small step backwards to make room for a new sensation: that of curiosity.
“Er,” she said, licking her lips. “Er, how’d’ye do, Your Highness?”
The man-thing uncoiled and slid away from the stone chair it had been resting on.
“How do I do?” it asked, and its voice was just what she expected, a sibilant hiss, replete with menace. “How do I do? I do what I like and I do it very well.”
“Oh,” said Katya, faintly. She had just barely managed not to take a giant leap backward when the serpent-thing slid forward, but it had taken every ounce of willpower not to, and now, as he came just a little closer, she could not think why she had not run screaming from it.
Except that it seemed that that was what he was waiting for.
She was a country girl. She knew what snakes were like. They waited till you moved, before they struck.
She held her ground.
“Tell me,” it said, “tell me why you aren’t hammering on the door, begging to be let out? Why aren’t you screaming? All the others did so.”
“It’s colder out there,” said Katya, after a moment. “It ain’t warm in here, but at least I’m out of the wind.”
The noise it made then was unnerving, the hiss intertwined with a rattling, clacking sound that echoed around the empty stone walls. It was a second or two before Katya realized that the man-thing was laughing.
She grinned back and stepped up to the brazier.
The mirth was short-lived. Prince Lind looked her over once more. The snake’s tongue flicked out between the fangs.
“A pity,” it hissed. “A pity, since this is not the way the game is played, my dear.”
Game? She thought. What game? But she knew, instinctively, what it was he sought.
Hadn’t she played that same game, all her life long, with her mother, her father, her siblings, her entire village? That moment of victory, when through her persistence they finally, wholly and completely, acknowledged her existence, and were, however briefly, ashamed.
But then, no one’s life had been at stake.
She reached out her hands toward the warmth of the brazier, trying to think of some way to delay. If no scream came, mayhap someone would come to see what was happening? It was just barely possible that they might, and that they might then try to save her.
A frail hope, but this was now all she had.
She leaned closer to the only source of heat and said, as evenly as she could, “Surely, there’s no hurry about it, though? I mean, you could let me warm up, at least.”
It made that revolting laughing sound again.
“Just as you like,” it said, with mocking courtesy. “Shall I get you some wine?”
She watched in fascination as it slithered to the table and filled a silver cup from a crystal flagon, watched as the thing slid back toward her and held it out.
She took the cup, repressing a shudder as her fingers came into contact with those dry, hardened talons and papery skin, and managed a bleak smile of thanks. The thing drew back its lips, revealing those terrible fangs once more.
She was aware that he knew precisely what she was doing. She was aware, moreover, that her weak little stratagem had amused him. Her heart sank. All her gambit would do was buy her a few more minutes of life.
“You must tell me, of course, when you are comfortable,” the Prince said. “Meanwhile, what shall we do to pass the time?”
“Well, you seem to like games, Your Highness. Mayhap we could play one?”
The black, unwinking eyes narrowed.
“A game…” it mused. “Indeed, a game should be played. But for what stakes? Ah, no, my dear, not that. I fear I must disappoint you, there. But you say you wish to be warm? Let us play for your clothing, then. I will dice you for every stitch you stand up in.”
Katya blushed. It was an outrageous suggestion, even for a peasant girl, but even while she registered the humiliation, her mind was racing.
“But what will you forfeit, my lord? It hardly seems fair, if you will not spare me, that you should not lose something, even so.”
“I never lose,” said the Prince.
“So you say,” Katya said. “But still, if I must shed my clothes, then you should shed something as well. Your precious skin, perhaps?”
For a moment, she thought she’d gone too far. Her heart thumped loud inside her chest; she thought for certain he must hear it.
But then came that rattling laughter, once more.
“Touché, my dear. I do salute you. Very well. I wager my skin against yours. Shall we begin?”
It was extremely fortunate for Katya that two years before, a mania for playing Hazard had swept her village. It was not clear who had introduced them to this game of the high-born, and even yesterday, Katya would not have counted knowledge of the game in any sense an advantage, since her father had lost three fat geese and a bushel of barley to its lures before her mother had put a stop to his participation.
But at least, when the Prince announced his preference, with another hideous smile and a flick of that impossibly disgusting tongue, she felt reasonably confident that she could manage to play without having to ask too many questions. She understood the rules.
The Prince’s assertion that he never lost held some truth. She was forced to give up her cloak and her shawl and then her jacket, in very short order.
But on the fourth cast, she called a main of eight and nicked with a twelve, to the surprise of them both.
There was a moment when it occurred to her that he might not honour the stakes. Indeed, why should she have thought that he would play fair at all? She shrank under his infuriated gaze, but then, he hissed out what seemed to be a sigh, and stepped a little away from the table.
There was a sort of trembling in the air, a vibration that rocked, ever so slightly, the stone floor beneath her feet, and then an odd, tearing sound as the shining scales at his throat seemed to part and fall away. The Prince straightened up and shook himself, and the snakeskin slipped to the floor with a clanking sound.
He won the next two throws, and Katya took off her first gown, and her shoes.
But then she won again, impossibly, because he threw the main he’d called on a chance, and then there were two piles of scaly skins lying in heaps beside her carefully folded things.
He had, even after the first loss, played with an indifferent, careless air, and she could feel his amusement hanging about her. Now, though, he was playing in earnest. He barely looked at her, concentrating his eyes wholly upon the game, but she didn’t mind that. He might be watching the dice, but his attention was utterly on her. It was a most novel thing, and despite knowing that no matter what happened, she was still doomed, she was actually enjoying herself.
After she lost her second gown, she was shivering visibly, although she was trying very hard to control it.
Prince Lind muttered a curse, and got up to slide the brazier closer to her side.
“Th-thank you,” she managed, between chattering teeth.
“Don’t imagine I do it for your benefit,” he hissed. “It’s monstrous distracting, all that shaking. You want to keep your mind on the game.”
A red flannel petticoat joined the clothing on the floor before she won again. This time, when Lind sat down again, it occurred to her that he seemed different.
Smaller.
He called a main of five. The cubes flipped up and through the air and tumbled down.
Eleven. Another skin lost.
She kept her eyes down. The last thing she wanted now was to anger him. At any moment, he might tire of this, and then… she swallowed, and pushed the thought away.
They’d been at this for ages. Why didn’t someone come to see what was happening? Why wasn’t the guard bringing another victim in here?
She lost another petticoat and her new woolen socks.
The Prince refilled their cups, and clinked his against hers in a sort of half-exasperated salute.
And then she won again.
He got up again, this time very slowly. The snake-tongue flicked out again, and the dark eyes seemed almost to devour her in a fury, but he stepped past her and this time the trembling was real, she could feel the stones rumbling and the walls were shaking and he cried out so loud, she thought he was dying.
It was somehow more terrifying than anything else about this terrifying day. She could hear the roar of an unholy wind whistling past her ears and there was a red mist rising, like a spray of blood, and a high, keening whine, as if there was some small animal caught in a trap.
Katya fell to the floor, her hands over her eyes, and wept in terror.
Somewhere, from very far away, there was a voice, asking her in desperate tones, if she was all right. Begging her to say she was, to say anything, to please be all right.
From even farther off, there was a frantic thumping of fists on wood.
And then a strong arm was around her shoulders, and a man’s voice was whispering “Hush, now, love. It’s all right. I swear it.”
Katya pulled her hands away from her face and looked up into deep brown eyes.
Eyes that saw her, and only her.
Below those eye was a straight, aquiline nose and a tender mouth, and his arms tightened around her shoulders.
The pounding on the door grew more agitated and frantic.
She looked at the man holding her. Behind him lay five snake-like skins and half of her own wardrobe. One of the wine-cups had fallen from the table and lay on the floor beside them.
“Wha- what happened?” she whispered.
“I don’t know,” he said, bewildered. “In truth I don’t, but—oh, my love, whatever it was is down to you!”
She sat up, suddenly very aware of his arms and her half-dressed condition, and blushed a deep red.
The pounding was now joined by some shouting.
Prince Lind—well, she assumed it was still Prince Lind, although how he could have become so transformed was not something she could grasp, not in her present state—Prince Lind seemed disposed to ignore the rising clamor outside the room.
“You have a name, I imagine?” he said, smiling down at her. “I don’t mind telling you it’s going to be deuced awkward introducing my bride if I don’t know her name.”
“I—oh, you cannot be serious,” she said.
“Why not, my love? Why should the Prince not marry the loveliest, bravest, smartest woman in the realm? What else could be more fitting?”
“But I’m just—I mean, I’m only…” her voice trailed away, in awe and disbelief.
Because Lind still saw her, all of her, and only her.
Because not all beauty is only skin deep.

The Last Chronicle of Pete Mersill

Insert witty, engaging opening line here. I don’t know who these people are that have time to sit around thinking up great opening lines, but I ain’t one of them. There’s a Fetch waiting to kill me. They’ve tried to before, but I know this one won’t go so well for me. My defiance has finally caught up with me.
The Fetches mostly did away with humanity’s will to resist in the first month of their rule. I missed that month. Most of it I spent blackout-drunk behind the Liquors & Country Ham Store off of I-65 in Bowling Green, Kentucky. I’d run out of gas about a mile up the interstate and was called home by the twin beacons of Waffle Houses to either side of the exit. But it was the Liquors & Country Ham Store that told me I had found my final resting place.
Six days and nineteen hours before that I had blown brain matter all over the face of my twelve year-old daughter as I shot the wrong man. On live television no less. Yeah, I’m that kind of screw-up.
Oh, get off your high horses you hoity-toity, poor excuses for cattle. You sat there and did nothing while our world was being taken over. You have no room to judge me. Yeah, so I blew the brains out of an innocent man but at least I took action. At least I’m still taking action. What are you doing? Letting them tighten your leashes and suck your life energy from you? Just be glad I didn’t kill your Fetch.
For those of you who are uninitiated, which is who this journal is for, to kill a Fetch you must first kill the human it feeds from. Fetches gain their power and sustain their existence by leeching power from their humans. That means when I slit a Fetch’s throat, it just takes life energy from its human to sustain it. In return the human suffers the pain of the wound without the actual cut. Eventually with enough cuts, the human expires and the Fetch dies.
Die isn’t quite the right word. They move on to their next plane of existence, the next world, or whatever they call it. Though they don’t move on so much anymore. At least not since Nicole gave magic to hers. Nicole is such an ordinary name to bring down the reign of humanity on Earth, but then again, so is Pete. I’m Pete, if you didn’t bother to read the cover page. And if you didn’t, then give the journal to the person sitting next to you because the job of saving the earth isn’t for idiots.
I’m sorry, that was harsh. Maybe the cover page got torn off and you have no idea what I’m talking about. My name is Pete Mersill and I am fifty-five ... ish. Time has less meaning in this new world. Twenty years ago, on live TV, as I said before, I shot the President of the United States through the temple as he shook hands with my daughter. I liked the guy, had no beef with him. I voted for him. But I thought he was the human behind the Fetch trying to take over the world.
I’m getting ahead of myself some. Most of you, by you I mean the uninitiated, don’t even know what a Fetch is beyond some Irish mythical creature. You don’t know that it’s the name of the things you see creeping around your bedroom at night. Or that they’re the things you catch a glimpse of out of the corner of your eye but disappear when you turn to look at them. There are those that are visible to everyone, you just didn’t know they were Fetches. Those who’ve chosen to stay rather than move on to their next world. You call them Overlords.
The world has no idea what the Overlords are, but the prevailing theory at the moment is that they’re aliens. Which, by the loosest definition of the word, is true. They’re not from here. Fetches, and other creatures like them, are from a different ... plane, dimension, existence? I don’t know the right word. It is a place laid on top of our world. No, that’s not right. They exist in the same place and at the same time just in slightly different, frequencies? That doesn’t explain it either but you can ask a mystic or a physicist about that. I’m neither. I’m a brute from Wyoming that smashes things first and asks questions later. See the above assassination of the President for further clarification.
And while we’re on the point of clarification, as to the events and conversations recorded in this journal, they are accurate to the best of my ability. Though my abilities are pretty accurate. A side effect of killing my Fetch, and other Fetches to a lesser degree, is the ability to see parts of my history like YouTube videos. I don’t know if I’m looking at my memories or the actual events in time, but I can recall almost everything that has ever happened to me with perfect clarity. Just a piece of advice for when it happens to you: don’t watch your birth.
Twenty years ago I had a horrible job as the night manager for a grocery chain. I had the laziest crew, a manager that didn’t care, and a job that sucked the joy out of my life and marriage. My daughter, Marissa, was the only good thing in my life, so I worked hard to provide for her.
Every night I straightened, faced, cleaned, and organized that giant store almost by myself. As time went by I got better at the job. They had said the job was impossible, but I was finishing with one or even two hours left to go. Yet, something ate at me, didn’t sit right in my stomach. My crew would thank me for doing jobs I hadn’t done, ask me about tasks I hadn’t assigned them, and my food would disappear even though I was the only one with a key to the office where it was kept.
I began review tapes from the nights under the guise of trying to catch a late night shoplifter. The Loss Prevention people thought I was crazy, but at the time so did I. For three nights I saw nothing on the tapes. On the fourth, I saw myself walk into the freezer at the same time I was wiping down the check stands. I was literally in two places at once.
“Are these tapes synced up?”
“Yeah, why wouldn’t they be?” Jones, the tall LP guy, said.
“Because I’m right there and right there,” I pointed at the two different screens, “at the same time.”
“No, you’re right there.” They pointed at the freezer.
“And right there.” I tapped the image of myself on the screen, except I knew it wasn’t me because I hadn’t done that last night. Maybe they had reused old tapes and there was bleed through or something.
But that explanation went out the window. “There’s nothing on that screen,” Jones said.
I stared in shock as his gaze circled around the screen, never once landing on the image of me wiping down the conveyor belts. It was like a little kid trying to avoid looking at his mom when she was trying to get him to look her in the eyes. If I hadn’t been ready to soak my trousers, I would have found it funny. As it was, I could feel the breath of a fourth person on my neck. There were only three people in the small room.
I turned to look but there was no one behind me. Through the open door I saw a flash of red slip around the corner. I elbowed the short LP guy out of the way, I never remember his name, and looked down the long hallway. It was empty. The fluorescent lights glaring off of the cream tiles left no shadows. The door leading back to the floor was fifty yards away. Five seconds at Olympic speeds. Two seconds was all it had taken me to get around the corner. The swinging door hung silent and still.
Back in the room, ignoring the shocked looks, I demanded they pull up the last few minutes of the camera placed just outside this room. And there I was again, running out of the room followed by me chasing me hot on my heels. Still to this day it makes my head hurt. Of course the LP guys saw nothing and the few other coworkers I grabbed from the break-room were equally baffled by my behavior and agitation.
James, the manager, stepped in and sent me home, telling me to take the next few nights off and get some good sleep. I told him to stop acting like he cared about the store and go back to his games. Probably shouldn’t have done that in front of everyone, but I didn’t care at the moment. Someone ... something had breathed on the back of my neck. I still felt the moisture of the hot breath.
I was in a daze as I walked out the doors into the light snow that was supposed to turn heavy by tonight. Our apartment was only a couple of blocks away from the store which is why I had taken the job in the first place. I walked to work and my wife would use the car to take our daughter to school. Which is how Zene, the Russian girl from the deli, was able to catch up to me. Her pink and black hair stood out against the gray sky as I turned to see who was calling my name.
“Pete, I heard you have problems with ghosts last night?”
She wasn’t pretty, but she wasn’t ugly either. My wife Sara was better looking, but I won’t lie, she’d been pretty cold the past few years. When Zene, whose real name was Zenechkacaka or something like that, flirted with me, I’d been interested but hadn’t acted on it. When she’d found out I was married she’d backed off. But she was fun to talk to, so I made it a point to go to the deli every morning she worked. I’d grab a hot sausage biscuit and chat with her for a minute or two. When I didn’t stop by this morning she must have been worried.
“I don’t know what happened. I’m probably just tired and....” I couldn’t finish the sentence; I knew it was a lie. I knew what I had seen.
“I know you are smart man. You see something, I believe you see it. My aunt, she is ... she knows about these things. You go see her and she will help you.” She punched a number into my phone and pivoted to leave but turned back to give me a quick peck on the cheek.
I stared at her running back to the store, trying to convince myself I was thinking about her statement and not watching her backside. Okay, so I was watching. Back at the apartment I waited for Sara to get back. We’d gotten Marissa into one of the more prestigious charter schools on the other side of town, but it was only a thirty-minute round trip. I knew from experience she wouldn’t be back for another two hours. I took my shower, ate breakfast, and stared at the number in my phone.
I should have gone to bed, but I dialed knowing I wouldn’t sleep with the feeling of being watched. I’d had it before, but this time I didn’t dismiss it as a trick of the mind. This time I knew something stood in the corner of my kitchen eating granola out of the jar from the counter. When I looked at it, there was nothing there. But when I looked at the phone I could see the reflected image of a man with no skin munching away as though this were any normal day.
The woman at the other end of the line, younger sounding than I had expected, gave me an address. I waited at the door for Sara, jogging out to meet her as she opened the door to our ancient Jeep Wagoneer. I grabbed the keys out of her hand, kissed her on the cheek, and pulled the driver’s door closed behind me. I didn’t look at her as I drove off. It hadn’t been the first time I smelled cigar smoke on her, and I found it easier to not think about it than to face the consequences of what it would do to Marissa. But I did think of Zene on the drive over.
Zene’s aunt turned out to be about three years younger than her, the result of Zene being an unexpected package of joy for her aging parents. She knew something was wrong the moment I stepped through the door. I won’t bore you with the details of the next hour of crushing herbs, burning incense, and shaking odd shaped dice out onto the table. I won’t bore you because she couldn’t tell me anything about what was going on, only that something was going on. She sent me to another woman who sent me to an old man who sent me to a young woman again who tried to send me to Zene’s aunt. When she found out I had already been there she sent me to a “last ditch effort” in her words.
This man, a mystic they called him, was Native American, but not from anywhere around Wyoming. He had deep brown skin with a gaunt face and blue eyes that didn’t seem out of place. He had what I needed; he knew what I had been seeing. That was the first time I heard the word Fetch. They go by many names, Fetch is the Irish one. He’d used some native word that I couldn’t even begin to pronounce, so I latched onto Fetch.
He explained everyone is born with a Fetch, a creature with no existence in this world so it consumes yours. It steals your life energy away so that it can stay here till it is ready to move on. The longer it is here, the more energy it steals, the stronger it will be in the next world. The legends about the Fetch are like any legend, one part truth, and fifty parts stuff people made up. Doppelgangers, changelings, guardian angels, these are all parts of the Fetch legend, though none of the legends have the full truth.
Even Hyan, the mystic, said most of the stuff he knew wasn’t reliable. He did know a few things for sure. He told me what they were, what they wanted, and how they stole your life. The most important thing he told me was how to kill mine. I wasn’t sure I wanted to but he assured me I needed to.
This is a big deal so pay attention here, humans are immortal. That’s right, we never die from old age. How can that be, Pete? You say, I’ve seen so many old people die. No, what you’ve seen is so many old people murdered by their Fetches that couldn’t bear to be in this world any longer. They can last here permanently but they have no power, no real substance so they want to leave. At least they did before I screwed that all up, but we’re still not there yet. You can patiently wait to hate me as everyone else does.
The point is, if there is no Fetch leeching your life energy you’ll never die. After you hit about thirty, your body stops aging and you’ll live for eternity. This is where we get our legends of vampires, from people who have killed their Fetches. Now, this immortality only applies to aging, not injury, disease, or plain old self-destruction. As far as I learned in the intervening years, only three or four of those who have freed themselves from these leeches have made it past two hundred years old. Of those, only one still lives today. She is three-hundred and sixty, mad as a hatter, and not long for this world. She just can’t bear the sustained assault of death time has thrown at her.
If you don’t believe me, I have included a picture of my wife and me, taken last year. To her dismay and my joy, she is drooping as bodies do when they make their way into the fifth decade of life. Her skin is tougher and the years of tanning and beauty products have left their mark on her face. I, on the other hand, still look like my studly thirty-six year-old self with all the strength and vigor that youth provides. It can be awkward though as my daughter just turned thirty-two and won’t be growing any older. An eternity at the same age as your daughter would be weird. But as I said earlier, I won’t live that long. The Fetch waiting for me will make sure of that.
Back to the story, I went home with a knife blessed by Hyan and killed my Fetch two seconds after walking through my front door. I hadn’t expected there to be so much blood. I don’t know why; it was alive and it was a creature but for some reason I thought it would just die and disappear. It took me days to get the stains out of the carpet. Sara lost her mind. About the dead Fetch, not the carpet. She was cold and horrible to me, but she wasn’t completely devoid of humanity.
She’d seen me walk in the door, thrust the knife into empty air, and a translucent-skinned creature fall dead on her coffee table. It didn’t break though, which was impressive for a Goodwill purchase. I sat her down and explained what had happened while her Fetch looked on with interest. I kept an eye on it, waiting for it to attack, but it never did. I’ve learned that while Fetches are still attached to their humans they aren’t quite aware of other Fetches. Or even this plane of reality beyond their humans. Some are more aware than others, like my Fetch had been. It has to do with the amount of death you have seen in your life.
I’ve seen a lot of death in my life, though most of it was before I could remember. My parents, stellar examples of love that they were, joined a cult while I was still in my mother’s womb. It didn’t take very long for them to lose themselves in the drugs and sex of the culture and I was left to be attended by the other young children in the cult as they got their worship on.
But on the night that they intended to sacrifice me to their prophet, one of the kids, I never did find out who, called in the FBI. With bullets flying, fires burning out of control, and pieces of the cheap metal structures collapsing all around me, I lay on the altar having a good ol’ time with my guardian angel. Yep, you guessed it, my Fetch. Fetches appear to you when you’re about to die. That is one of the most well-known facts about them. Except, think about it, how do we know about it if the people they appear to are dying? Because Fetches ain’t prophets, they can’t tell the future.
They have no special ability to know when you’re going to die and when not. They look at the situation around you and determine, “Hey, it looks like this kid’s been sent up the creek, might as well come and steal what life force I can before he kicks the bucket.” But when you don’t die, they fade into the background again excited that they get to keep stealing from you, keep growing in power. Sometimes, like in my case I’m sure, they even step in and protect you, which is where the guardian angel thing comes in.
But the point is, the more you face death, the more it happens around you, the more times you see your Fetch. And the more your Fetch is able to affect you. Or maybe, the more real they become in this world. Once again, I’m not sure how it all works. But what I do know is that the more you see them the more they see you. And that bond grows stronger over time.
And before we move on, you’re probably wondering why I killed my Fetch, and my daughter’s Fetch, but didn’t kill my wife’s. Do I really hate her that much? I don’t know. When the world went to pot and none of her lovers would take her in, she came crawling back to me. I could have left her, but Marissa still loves her, so I let her stay with me. I treat her as my wife, but when her Fetch finally takes her, it will be the best day of a horrible life. But I didn’t kill hers because she was worried it might be nice. I’m not kidding; she was worried about hurting its feelings.
Anyway, once I killed my Fetch, I could see the other Fetches. And I began seeing them in my dreams. And the more Fetches I killed, the clearer my dreams became.
Wait, I realized I missed something. I know this is all over the place but I’m trying to get everything you need to save the world down, but I’m not a writer, you know. I don’t even really read that much so you’ll have to excuse my weak attempts.
Anyway, you want to know how I killed the Fetches without killing the people. It was the knife that Hyan had given to me. It had some ancient juju on it that destroyed the Fetches’ connection to this world, meaning with humans, without letting them move on to the next world. During the craziness of the assassination, I lost the knife. I’ve learned how to keep them from moving on by myself, the separating from feeding on humans ... that still eludes me.
Anyway, the dreams got clearer with each new Fetch I killed. I didn’t go on a rampage or anything, just those whose people I liked or who had helped me. And any Fetch that took too great an interest in me.
The dreams showed this world that we live in now, where technology has been capped and Fetches control humanity’s hearts and mind. Humans are slaves to a ruling class of creatures that have no capacity for sympathy, let alone empathy. And people are kept in check by an invisible force of monsters that exactly equal their population. Well, invisible to most. And this new world was created by a single Fetch of such power that it warped reality around it.
This Fetch’s human had been brought to the brink of death so many times they and their Fetch shared a single mind and body. Fully aware of each other they began to plot the overthrow of humanity. The human because of the wrongs it had suffered, the Fetch because it wanted more power. And in my dreams this Fetch looked, acted like, and sounded like our President.
So, I began plotting the death of the President, as all sane people would. I was willing to die to keep my baby girl safe from that world. Ten long months I studied his movements, his security details, his habits, anything really that would give me greater insight into him. Ten long months, I prepared for my death shortly after his. Then, in a surprise move, he changed destinations and landed at F.E. Warren Air Force base just three miles south of me.
Marissa’s teacher called and said that out of all the students in Cheyenne, she had been chosen to shake his hand on stage and read her story about America. My plans went out the window as I grabbed my uncle’s rifle and ran out the door. Of course, Sara had the car, she never stayed home during the day anymore, but I had saved up enough to buy a scooter. I drove faster than was safe, if safe on an interstate on a scooter was a thing to begin with.
There was a ton of security but I found it easy enough to slip through the back when they weren’t looking. Fetches tended to look where their humans were about to look, a precognition so to speak, so finding a place where no one was looking was easier than it would seem. I slid around to the side where there was a press booth set up. I climbed the stairs until I was covered by the black cloth. Scrambling up the scaffolding, I peeked out the top, the press below me screened off by another cloth. Laying down I pulled back a flap to give an unhindered view of the stage.
I’d brought the gun because I knew I wouldn’t be able to get close enough to stab the Fetch. But with the Fetch and human being one it would die. My little girl and this world of course, would be safe. I was late and Marissa was striding across the stage towards him, confidence that could’ve only come from her mother clear in her walk. I aimed, heard a scream, and pulled the trigger.
It didn’t take me long to figure out I had shot the wrong man. His Fetch stepped out from behind one of the Secret Service agents where it had been hiding. It, being joined with the President, had felt like it needed protection too. The crowd was in chaos and Marissa was screaming, trying to wipe off the gore and mess. Secret Service and Security were swarming towards me as I lay, too stunned to move.
They ripped me out of the scaffolding and I fell twenty feet to the hard clay soil below. With a whoosh I heard the air escape my lungs and a knee dug into my back while hands yanked on my arms. I’d dropped the gun but it was useless now. The crowd had been pushed back and a black Lincoln town car pulled up on the opposite end of the stage. All action came to a halt as the President jumped out of the backseat in his undershirt, boxer-briefs, and black socks. All eyes were on the newcomer as he hustled towards me.
Even the fast-fading Fetch of the real President stared in shocked disbelief. But I saw what none of them did. The new President was a Fetch, fully formed and physically manifested Fetch. Its human, a plain looking slightly overweight girl of about twenty, was inside of it. They moved as one, the Fetch overlaid on the girl, and knelt in front of me. That’s when I learned that Fetches can shapeshift.
“Thank you for stopping him. I don’t know what he was planning to do.” He said in the deep voice of the President.
She winked at me. The Fetch didn’t wink, the girl inside winked. She knew I could see.
She stood to address the agent who had hustled up, gun not pointed at the newcomer but not put away either. The agent asked the false President a lot of questions and he gave the woman his answers which she seemed satisfied with and holstered her weapon. We were all whisked away to the Air Force base then, even Marissa who I wasn’t allowed to see yet.
Safe inside a hangar the false President told his/her made up story about being switched out for a look alike. About my fake anonymous call to the FBI to rescue her, I apparently had seen something, and my determination to not let the impostor hurt my daughter. I didn’t know how much of this had been set up by the false President ahead of time and how much it was chance but I had just handed over the Presidency of the United States to a Fetch. A cold, merciless, life-leeching Fetch.
They cleared out the hangar because the President wanted to thank me in person.
“So you know to keep your mouth shut, right? First, who’s going to believe you? Second, if they do, you assassinated the President of the United States.” It spoke with the girl’s voice.
“Who are you?”
“It shouldn’t matter, but seeing how much you’ve helped me today, I think I’ll give you a little something. Nicole. My name is Nicole.”
“Nicole what?”
“Wells.”
“Why are you doing this?”
She waved over a Secret Service agent. It was the one who had driven her to the scene of the shooting. The one that I could now see was also a fully-manifested Fetch. A Fetch that had no human. There wasn’t another human close enough to belong to this Fetch and there was something about his look, his feel, which told me he was in this world permanently.
“I was raised by a coven of witches. Most people don’t believe in magic, but I assure you it is real. I guess I don’t need to assure you of that.” She ran her hand along my jawline but it was the President’s hand as well. “And they took me to the edge of death so many times it seemed I just lived there.”
“One time,” the President Fetch said, “I was with her night and day for two weeks. Every time she improved they came to nudge her back to the edge.”
“Why?” It was all I could think to ask.
“Because they had no talent for magic so they stole it from me,” Nicole said with a dead voice. “And, because they had no talent, they couldn’t steal it magically. They had to bleed it and beat it out of me. Though my aunt had ... other methods.” I didn’t want to know about them so I let that statement lie. “But I began to talk to my Fetch, his name is Ghanka by the way, and the more I talked the more we became united.”
Ghanka stood and paced away while Nicole remained in front of me. The split was instantaneous and without show.
“One day, something happened to the witches, and they went into hiding. They left me alone for three weeks. Three weeks that resulted in their undoing. Ghanka was solid enough by then to move in this world by himself. He brought me food and bandaged my wounds. And he was waiting for the witches when they returned.
“I didn’t know how to use my magic. I had been nothing more than a well to be drunk from before. But he did. He’d been watching them use my magic for ten years. And thanks to the witches, I knew how to give my magic away.” She had been looking off into the distance but now she returned her gaze to mine. “Have you ever made love with something that can touch your soul?” She laughed at my discomfort.
The Fetches laughed, too, but it was delayed like the joke had to travel a long distance first.
“I was twelve years old when Ghanka took the magic from my body and killed the witches who had tortured me all of my life.” She paused as though a thought had just occurred to her, “Isn’t your little girl twelve?”
“Leave her out of this.” My voice had more growl in it than I had ever heard.
She held up her hands, “I meant no offense. I only wanted you to see where I’m coming from. Could you imagine what happened to me happening to your daughter?” She looked deep into my eyes and must have seen the pain there. “Yes, I see that you can. Then maybe you’ll understand why I can’t stand by and let people like them continue to exist.”
“But what does taking over the Presidency have to do with any of that?”
“Not much really. It’s the taking over of the world that I’m after. I would advise you to go home, buy several years’ worth of supplies and head into the mountains. This world is going to get very....” she pulled back the long sleeve of her shirt to reveal a thousand little scars, “painful.”
“How is that Fetch still here?” was all I could think to ask as she walked away.
“Who?” She looked over her shoulder at the guard. “Oh, Alric? I’ve given Fetches the ability to choose whether to stay or go. And those who stay are able to draw their energy from all of humanity rather than just one human. All of humanity except me, of course.” She giggled. “Even Ghanka no longer feeds from me.”
She became one with Ghanka and walked out the door towards the tarmac where Air Force One was waiting. Marissa came running in with a thousand questions, but I held my finger up to my lips. She was a good girl; she had seen me kill her Fetch and obeyed without hesitation. I went to my store, checked that James wasn’t there, and set Marissa to getting every canned good she could into the carts.
Zene was just getting off work, and I told her things were going to get bad. She, like everyone in the world, had heard about the assassination of the impostor President. She put her hand on my cheek and I reveled in the touch. But I pulled away before Marissa could come upon us. She believed me, thinking I had been given some insight for my service to the President, and joined Marissa in stocking up.
I headed to the cash room, which was empty of the day managers who had already gone home, and I took all the cash. The LP guys wouldn’t be coming because the camera in the cash room had been out for a week. I was the only one outside of LP that knew about the outage as I had been in the room when the camera broke.
Thirteen hundred dollars’ worth of groceries were put on my employee tab. I authorized the transaction, a fire-able offense, and we loaded everything up in Zene’s car. At the apartment we transferred our stuff to the Wagoneer. I invited her to go with us, but she said she wanted to be with family. I understood and waved goodbye as we went inside to pack. I’d known Sara wouldn’t come from the moment I was told to run. The surprise was that she didn’t fight me over custody of Marissa.
“Sweetie, the men I’m going to stay with, they don’t really do kids.”
Marissa shrugged and went to her room. Sara gave me some snarky comment about not being uppity and bounced her hips out the door. Two seconds later she was back demanding keys to the Wagoneer.
“Sorry, honey, it’s in my name. As is the scooter. There’s a bus station down the road,” I said as I slipped her phone and wallet out of her purse.
“What do you think you’re doing?”
“I’m taking back my phone, my credit cards, and my debit card. That’s money I made, not you. So, I’ll leave you ... seven dollars in cash. That will get you all the way across town.” I tucked all of it into my pockets and handed the purse back. She stormed out the door, and I went back to work.
We filled the back of the Wagoneer and part of the back seat as well. I grabbed the six thousand dollars I’d been hiding in a safe bolted to the floor in the closet. It was covered with Star Wars stickers and held boring tax documents in it. But I’d made a false back wall to keep Sara from stealing it. That combined with the 10 K I had taken from the store gave me enough to buy some essentials.
We stopped by the new uber outdoor store on the way out of town. I grabbed a device for satellite TV, internet, and phone, which maxed out my credit cards. I bought a .270, a 30-06, and two twelve gauges with enough ammo to last us a while but not enough to call the authorities about. As well as fishing rods, a two-thousand dollar tent with a shower, heater, and four rooms built in, along with clothes, survival gear, more food, and five thousand dollars on a couple of ATV’s and a trailer to pull them on. The sales girl must have thought she was winning the lottery. Apparently they worked on commission, and I dropped over twenty-two thousand in less than an hour and a half. Most of that was the paperwork.
I almost fainted at the amount of money I threw around, but I knew it wouldn’t matter when Nicole made her move. The dreams told me this world was about to become a pit of misery and people would work for and be fed by the Fetches. Economy was a word of the past, not the future. I spent what I had left on a motorcycle off of Craigslist. It would be faster to get in and out of town on and, sue me, I bought it because I wanted it.
We were up in the Snowy Ranges for five days before the news broke. We’d found an old campsite at an abandoned mine and set up shop. Three days after we had set up another family joined us. Zene’s family. They said it had been unintentional, but her aunt had guided them here so I didn’t believe it for a second. Things had already begun to change. Bills were passed by senators and representatives who shouldn’t be working together. World leaders changed policies and generals moved troops around.
On the morning of the fifth day, the news was filled with revelations that those in power weren’t human. Nicole, on live TV, stepped out of her Fetch and declared Earth under her power. What followed couldn’t accurately be called a rebellion. They tried to fight back, but camera crews filmed as mobs took to the streets only to fall asleep as they marched. One man, a retired Gunnery Sergeant, didn’t let the lack of energy dissuade him. He pushed on towards the White House, rifle in hand ready to reclaim America. He withered to a frail old man as we watched. As he blew out his last breath, his Fetch appeared before him, straightened, and took its place in the ruling class of Overlords.
By the time the sun was sinking towards the horizon, the overthrow was complete and all signs of rebellion were gone. Early reports said millions dead, possibly hundreds of millions, their bodies turned to dust in the street. All those with a spark of resistance had been culled, their Fetches forced to move on to the next world.
The greater Fetches, as I now call them, gained control over the lesser Fetches through Nicole’s magic. The next three weeks were called the purge as the Overlords killed millions of the lesser Fetches while leaving their humans as cattle to be fed from. They also stopped new Fetches from entering this world without their permission. They couldn’t risk the world being over populated by Fetches and destroying the crops through overuse.
Zene, her two aunts, and her sister put up a ward around our camp. It kept Fetches out of the camp and with the separation I was able to kill theirs with minimal pain. I went out on several missions to bring back many of the other mystics I had visited months before. They were wandering the mountains looking for me as well, though they said they didn’t know that’s what they were doing. As the morning of the sixth day arrived our numbers had risen to around sixty people. There was enough food for about seven months and plenty of shelter to go around.
That morning as one of Zene’s cousins, a slip of a boy about the same age as Marissa, was out scouting for strays from the town, he saw two men coming up the mountain. He couldn’t explain how but he said they just looked wrong. I followed him and found two fully manifested Fetches. Most humans had trouble telling a greater Fetch and human apart if the Fetch wore a human disguise. For me though, it was clear as day. And these two were powerful. I didn’t know the redheaded one, but the other was Alric, Nicole’s personal bodyguard. Though his features were beginning to change, become more angular.
We headed back and I made the decision to leave. With the others’ Fetches dead and the camp not having a road to it, it was beyond unlikely that the attackers would be looking for random stragglers on such a direct path. And as far as Hyan knew, Fetches couldn’t find humans through any magical means. I confirmed that I was the target when I left the camp and headed further up the mountain. Their path bent to follow me.
But they didn’t know the mountain and I lost them in a rock field. With a hasty goodbye to Marissa, I was off down the mountain on the bike. I didn’t go too fast, I wanted them to follow; I wanted to lead them away from Marissa and the others. They were on foot for most of the way; their car was at the bottom of the mountain. I stopped and filled up with gas from their tank while I waited for them to catch up.
The chase across America was far more orderly than I had expected, they didn’t break the speed limit. I don’t know why they cared about it, must be deep-seated conditioning to not draw attention to themselves. Once we were past Kansas City, I took off like a bullet. The roads were empty, people confined to their homes or work and I held the speedometer as near to the hundred mile an hour mark as my nerves could handle. After a couple of hours and most of my gas, I pulled over forty miles before St. Louis.
I filled up, nobody asked for money anymore, and took a hotel room. When I say took, I programmed my own keys and went up and locked the door. I moved the furniture against the door, propped the mattress in front of the window and used the box springs and frame to hold it in place.
I’d been asleep for about an hour when I felt the presence of the Fetches outside the room. I looked between the front door and the back balcony doors. I hadn’t blocked them off because it was my first escape route. If the back had been blocked I would have gone through the adjoining room’s front door. But they were out front so I slipped out back and over the railing. Dropping to the ground I ran under them, hoping they wouldn’t fall on me from above, and on to my motorcycle without incident.
Alric was there again. There was a darkness about him as I watched him fade in my rear view mirror. He had become something more than a Fetch. He’d joined with something evil and it was corrupting his already corrupted essence.
In my fear and lack of sleep I forgot to keep an eye on the speedometer and you already know about the running out of gas. I took all the scotch I could carry from the Liquors & Country Hams store and waited for them to kill me. I deserved to die so I didn’t run anymore, but I wasn’t brave enough to face it sober.
But as you can see by this journal, they didn’t come for me. Not then, not till now. The greater Fetches rose up and killed Nicole and Ghanka. They liked being able to control the lesser Fetches but didn’t like someone having the ability to control them. They had learned how to feed off the entire population of Earth as well as how to keep themselves from moving on. That was all they thought they needed. Turns out Nicole was the one tracking me and without her, I was just another human in a sea of humans. I sat there for two days, three sheets to the wind, maybe four. I don’t really know what that phrase means; I was drunk is my point.
My reprieve from the death sentence, my new lease on life didn’t have much of an effect on me. I sat and I drank and I ate country ham. It was going to be a race to see who killed me first, alcohol, dehydration, or heart attack. None of these got to the finish line because Sara, yes Sara of all people, found me and cleaned me up.
There was no love in the action. She had been rejected by her now almost neutered men who had no need for their shiny toy. She thought I was the best chance at keeping her alive and free from the influence of her Fetch. Clever girl traced me through my phone and took me back to the mountain camp. To her dismay the wards didn’t include her, I don’t understand the magic so don’t ask me why, and I couldn’t kill her Fetch without killing her.
That’s when I decided to become a Fetch hunter. The world was heating up, the forests and rivers receding, and everything was turning to refuse in a hot minute. The mystics explained that before the Fetches made their move, there were hundreds, maybe even thousands, of different magical creatures out there. They didn’t fight each other. They didn’t bother each other because they were evenly balanced. Each creature maintained its territory and they kept the Earth from dying. Now the Fetches had unbalanced everything by pushing the others out. Well, I do have to own up to my part in the destruction.
So, the only way I could see to save humanity and the planet was to kill Fetches. But I couldn’t bring myself to kill lesser Fetches by killing their humans first. So the mystics, led by Hyan, made me a map. A magical map no less but I wasn’t up to mischief. I was up to murder. It would show the humans who had become aware of their Fetches and joined with them. Greater Fetches had no humans and so no presence that the mystics could track. But where the Greaters gathered, humans became aware of their Fetches. Most chose to join rather than be drained of their life. Those humans I didn’t have a problem killing.
Maybe I should have a problem. Maybe I should be sympathetic to their dilemma but I’m not. I never claimed to be a saint. I had only had one goal. One. Give my little girl a better life. And if you stand in the way of that, if you choose them over us, I’ll put a bullet in your brain and then rinse and repeat with your Fetch. And I still sleep at night. Yeah, I’m that kind of screwed-up.
Anyway, I finally ended up in Phoenix. I spent the last twenty years traveling the world, righting my wrong one Fetch at a time. Except there is no righting my wrong. No matter how many I kill, millions upon millions of people died for my mistake. And now billions suffer because of it. There is no redemption for me, there is no happy ending. There is no love for Pete. Sorry, had to lighten the tone a little.
And now, after all these years, I have finally drawn the attention of the Greater Fetches. In total, I’ve killed maybe a hundred of them over that time, out of a couple thousand. But something changed, something made them sit up and take notice of me. Don’t know what it was. Their minds are as alien to us as ours are to them. So we moved to the most sun-baked patch of ground that still has a city on it. Fetches don’t like the heat; it affects their power somehow. Well, that’s not exactly true. They don’t like extremes of temperatures, hot or cold.
It’s one of the reasons that most of the legends about them come from temperate places like Ireland and Scotland. They were strongest there. But now the world is brown, water has moved north, and much of the planet is uninhabited. And it’s in those places that the other hunters gather. The rebels make their stand. There aren’t any others like me; they’re just normal folks doing their best to fight back. They can’t leave the deserts though, or the Greaters will suck their life from them. So, they gather in back alleys of abandoned cities hoping for a miracle.
Suckers, they thought it was me.
“Nope,” I told them. “I’m just a mirage.” They didn’t think that was funny, but I didn’t care. Sara, who’s tagged along with me all these years because she has nowhere else to go, laughed. She does have her bright spots every now and again. I was only in Phoenix to lay low. I was sure that if I didn’t make a move for a couple of months the heat would die down and I could get back to work. Pun most definitely intended.
There were plenty of abandoned houses and I even found some solar panels and a window unit air conditioner. We slept in the walk-in closet off the master bedroom. It was the only place that didn’t have an external wall or window and could be closed up. I punched a hole through the dry wall and used a rusted saw I found in the living room as decoration to cut back the two-by-fours. I slid the air conditioner in and hooked the solar panels up to the fancy battery system.
Three months passed like that, us sleeping in a tiny cool room, foraging in the wilds and trashcans for food. Unfortunately killing Fetches didn’t pay too well. Especially since the people I freed from the Fetches were usually dead, too. When I got a Greater, people would share stuff with us, but I had trouble with rationing. So, we lived like hunter/gatherers, but what I hunted you couldn’t eat.
I found a few more a/c units that were fixable. I wasn’t great at mechanical stuff but several of my jobs had required me to be a jack-of-all-trades, so I got the job done. We took them down to the bazaar to trade for food and water. I only had one set of solar panels though so three of the a/c’s wouldn’t bring in much. But the moment we rode my old motorcycle into the square I knew there was a problem.
Everyone was looking at us, at me. Phoenix was a lawless, transitional town and it wasn’t unusual for people to come and go without warning. I shouldn’t have stood out in a crowd of strangers but every eye was on me. I left Sara with the bike and threaded my way to a church at the south end of the bazaar. Inside was a local rebel group and they were waiting for me.
“You have a bounty on your head.”
“How much?”
“A spot in one of the Overlords’ resorts.” The wiry, dirty speaker leaned in. “For life.”
“And do any of you intend to collect on this bounty?”
“No, sir,” the speaker said. “That sounds like about the worst thing I can imagine. Living next to them day after day being able to do nothing about it.”
“Why not? Why couldn’t you kill them?”
“You know why.”
“I wasn’t sure if you did. So what’s going to happen?”
“Get out of here. They said someone’s coming to collect but from what I hear, it’s something rather than someone.”
“How long?”
“Three days ago. We would’ve told you sooner, but we didn’t know where you were squatting.” He sat down on his chair.
“No problem. Thanks for the heads-up. Can I get an escort back through the crowd?”
“No need. They know if they try to collect, we’ll make sure they never make it out alive.”
“I got good stuff. You’ll want it. Plus, what I’ve got out at the house.” I gave them the address, and they sent someone with me to protect the a/c systems.
I didn’t run back but I didn’t slow down for anyone either. The bike had just under a full tank and I headed out on I-10 for Los Angeles. There was a large grouping of targets there, probably several Greaters. They wouldn’t expect me to go on the attack. We came across a band of shippers headed north, and I sent Sara with them. Marissa still lived in the mountains, and I sent a note saying she should help her mother. Sara protested, which shocked me to no end, but when I told her I was on my way to die, she relented.
Following the map, I found myself at the old Capital Records building. How cliché. I pulled out the charm Hyan had made for me, trapping all the Fetches in a half mile radius on this plane and went to work. There were ten Greaters in the building, I could feel them upstairs, which made the Lessers more lively. But as lively as they were, an M4 on semi-automatic was more than they could handle.
I didn’t take the time to determine whether they were working with the Fetches or not, I didn’t have that luxury. On the top floor I broke into the conference room, or office, it was hard to tell, and found all ten Fetches waiting for me. They were relaxed, sipping amber liquid out of crystal glasses. There were eleven chairs, one of them clearly waiting for me. The nearest Fetch, from an actor I didn’t remember the name of, indicated the chair.
I shot him between the eyes. I swung the barrel around the room shooting with a precision only twenty years of killing brings. They dove out of the way screaming for me to stop. I did, when there was one left.
“You didn’t need ten of you to talk to me. That was your mistake.” I said, rifle pointed at his chest.
He was plain, someone I was sure I had never seen before.
“We wanted to offer you a chance to join us, to rule ove—” I shot him in the heart.
I had heard the pitch before, and I had tortured the truth out as well. They would set me up, lull me, and then kill me. Problem for them was there is no amount of comfort or wealth that could convince me to side with them. That wouldn’t make a better world for Marissa.
Pushing through the glass doors out on to Vine St. I realized my mistake. They, the Greaters upstairs, had been the bait. Alric was the trap. He stood outside, the aura of evil causing the air around him to shimmer. I didn’t know what he’d joined with, or how he had changed so much but he didn’t even look human anymore. Well, he looked human but no one who saw what I saw would say he was human or even a Fetch.
I emptied my magazine into his chest. Thirty rounds of anti-personnel ammo turned his chest into ground hamburger. He smiled at me and advanced. I took off running to the left. My bike was to the right, but he would have too much of an angle in that direction and could cut me off. He was fast. Fast as me, if not a little faster.
I crossed the street in front of a speeding truck and gained a few steps on him. I didn’t know the area and didn’t know how I was going to escape. I only had one trick up my sleeve and, with the demon Fetch on my tail, it would at most buy me half a minute. We ran for several long blocks, with him pacing me rather than trying to catch me. Like a cat toying with a mouse.
In front of me, across Sunset Blvd. there was a bank. I didn’t know what kind. The signage had fallen long ago but the dual ATMs set into the wall were clear markers. The glass doors were broken and I hurdled through looking for the vault. I took another ten steps, pulled the pin on my grenade and threw it at the entryway. It exploded as the Fetch appeared, throwing him back out onto the street.
I found the vault, pushed the emergency lock button, and threw myself inside. L.A. was one of the few places to still have a power plant. It was solar and didn’t provide much power but most places weren’t using it anymore. I hoped they hadn’t thought to turn off the emergency power to the vault. It slid closed behind me and the heavy metal posts sunk home into the walls. It would be at least twenty-four hours before it opened again, maybe up to seventy-two.
It was the safety deposit vault. Everything of perceived value had been looted long ago, all the drawers were open. None of them looked like they had been forced so it had probably been by the bank president. But there were piles of discarded items they hadn’t seen the value in.
An electric candle that had the picture of a dead loved one on it. One box was filled with dehydrated astronaut food and pictures of the team that had developed them. In a bigger box was a tuxedo worn by Sean Connery as James Bond. It made a great blanket. And there was this empty notebook that you’re reading out of now. And as I write this, the counter on the vault door is falling below twenty minutes.
This is the end for me. Don’t get upset, I told you in the beginning there was no hope. I couldn’t succeed; I couldn’t win. And rightly so. No amount of suffering can help me pay for the mistakes I have made, the misery I have brought into this world. But you’re a different matter. Nobody hates you; nobody is looking to collect a bounty on your head. Unless they do, unless they are, and if that is the case, if this journal happens to end up in a jerk’s hand, realize you’re a jerk and walk away. But if you’re not, if you’re just a normal person, then you have a chance to make it better.
I’ve left the charm in the back of the journal. It will help you kill Fetches. I’ve also left a map to the camp where Marissa is. She’s been studying magic and hopefully she’ll be able to help you kill Fetches without killing their humans. Take as many people as you can, recruit as many as you can; you need soldiers. I couldn’t lead anyone, but you need to. You are the greatest and last chance humanity has to survive. I messed up my chance, don’t follow my lead.
Pete Mersill
Destroyer of humanity, killer of innocents, bringer of doom, undeserving father to the greatest daughter in the world....
The door is opening now....
Sorry.

Priscilla, The Magnificent, Flying Giant Squid

Nadia DeLayne scanned through Hans Van Clout’s pinched writing, hoping everything he’d told her before his death was true. If he was right, in moments she and her small steamship would reach a tower of broken ships visible only at low tide. She’d read the tidal forecasts a hundred times while on the Exundo, the ocean liner she’d ridden most of the way out here. Before transferring to her individual vessel this morning, she’d checked her calculations to verify the exact hour she needed to arrive. Hopefully, the creature she was supposed to meet would keep the appointment.
Shutting Van Clout’s journal, she gazed out at the placid surface of the ocean. The coordinates had to be correct. If not, she was as much a fool as Van Clout appeared to be when he’d returned from his solo dirigible journey across the ocean.
“I found the world’s final wonder,” he’d said once they were alone in his office, the reporters and gawkers gone for the day. “The key to proving my masterpiece.”
The masterpiece was the Portentum, a behemoth of the sky, a dirigible stronger and more powerful than any built before. Nadia knew the machine well. During the weeks of his absence, she had spent sleepless nights in the workshop, designing and testing until the inventor’s promises became real, actionable blueprints.
For the past ten years, their roles had been clear: Van Clout was the front man, dazzling the press and financiers with his smile, drawing them all into believing the impossible. Nadia stayed far from all the noise of publicity. She preferred the daily work behind the scenes, leading their crew of engineers, machinists, and chemists into achieving the discoveries and advances needed to fulfill Van Clout’s promises.
Even Van Clout, with all his charm and flare, had difficulty selling his last promise: “The Portentum will carry a kraken through the sky.”
When he told her his plans in private, Nadia’s jaw had dropped so far it nearly popped off.
“It’s not just any kraken,” Van Clout said, leaning close in the dim lamplight. “You’d think it’d be a beast, but no. I had the finest tea time with the creature when I stopped on her island by accident.”
“Her?” Nadia had been sure traveling alone had taken his wits.
“Yes. She calls herself Priscilla.” He raised his hands as if framing a marquee. “I’ll call her Priscilla, The Magnificent, Flying Giant Squid.” He dropped his hands. “Giant squid flows better than kraken.”
“How did you even have a conversation with a giant squid?”
“A kraken, my dear.” He knocked a rhythm on the table. “She learned Morse code from mermaids.”
They’d argued long into the night, but Van Clout ended with: “We’ve long built the impossible with machines. Why can’t nature have her own surprises?”
The statement didn’t do much to end Nadia’s skepticism. Yet, she trusted Van Clout enough to stretch her imagination to include a sentient giant squid.
When Van Clout made the public announcement, the reporters broke into snickers and most financiers kept their distance. Their most loyal backers remained, and Nadia was able to continue building Van Clout’s vision.
Then the Nimbus, the first passenger-class dirigible Van Clout had built, exploded.
In one second, several hundred lives were lost and Van Clout’s design was blamed. Further investigation revealed the explosion’s cause was the wrong mix of gasses had been pumped into the aft ballonet, but the damage to Van Clout’s reputation was done. Their last backers abandoned the project and the public forgot the automatons, steam cars, and other wonders Van Clout and Nadia had built.
Van Clout grew pale over the next few weeks, hardly eating, and sitting in his office for hours staring at nothing. One morning, nearly a month after the Nimbus’ explosion, Nadia walked into his office and found him dead.
She half-listened as the coroner said, “He showed signs of extreme stress, which caused his heart attack.”
There’d been a week of grieving, of shouting at his empty chair and accusing him of abandoning her, of curling up in a ball in the corner, unable to think or move. However, as she stood over the casket of her closest friend and looked at the room full of mourners who’d abandoned Van Clout, she knew what she needed to do.
As heir to his estate, she liquidated his mansion, his art collection, and every other valuable to finance the dirigible. Now, nearly a year later, The Portentum was ready. Within the hour, she would reach the tower of broken ships. All she could do was hope Van Clout hadn’t been mad, hope the kraken was real, and hope she could restore Van Clout’s legacy.
Priscilla watched the water’s surface as she settled on the sand inside a ship’s hull, her tentacles hanging over the side. Sunlight shimmered through the water, its warmth gone long before illuminating her tower of broken ships. Most were wood, but a few of the newer steam-powered vessels lay along the edges. The steel hulls made an excellent support, keeping the older ships from tipping over.
Humans were fascinating creatures. When she had been a smaller, daintier kraken, she’d used the suckers on her tentacles to climb up the side of boats and peek inside. Most boats were rather dreary, but some had male and female humans laughing and twirling together in a room full of glittering things. She’d watch, enjoying the wind, listening to the tinkling of what mermaids called “music.” Once her scales became too dry, or the first shouts of alarm came, she’d drop back into the ocean.
As she’d grown, the ships tilted as she climbed. Long ago, she’d pulled herself on top of a final ship. Her tentacles were long enough to wrap around the hull, suckers holding fast to the sides. The wood cracked beneath her weight, and the small, finless humans screamed and stabbed at her with pointed sticks. Projectiles pelted at her from long rods spitting out puffs of smoke. Just as the sun’s warmth started to reach her, the ship cracked and she tumbled into the deep.
The humans fell with her into the water, their legs kicking helplessly. She shook them once they stopped moving. They never woke as they sank to the ocean floor.
She hadn’t climbed on a ship since, unwilling to hurt these land-bound creatures. The rest of her ships were from wrecks she’d found over the years and dragged across the ocean with nets made of kelp.
Priscilla’s contemplations broke as a white line stirred on the water’s surface, leading her eyes to a tiny vessel approaching her tower. It had to be the human she’d met before. From a pile of shiny objects collected from the ships, she pulled a glass bauble the humans hung from their ceilings and set it on her head.
The decoration was similar to what human females wore, and should make the approaching human feel more comfortable. He seemed a pleasant human when they had first met so many months before. The mermaids said not to trust humans, but Priscilla had to. If he spoke the truth, she’d be able to live the dream she’d never admitted while watching birds soar over the ocean.
Nadia threw a rope around the seaweed-covered mast protruding from the ocean. The rest of the broken ship lay submerged just beneath the surface. She took a deep breath and shook her nervousness out of her hands as she waited.
The past ten months had been spent making sure The Portentum was built and wondering if the kraken even existed. She’d never stopped to think about how much her legs would shake as she waited to meet what anyone besides Van Clout would consider a monster of the sea.
A pale dome rose from the water, donned with a perilously-tilting chandelier. The water surged and splashed as several tentacles the width of Nadia’s body slammed on top of the broken ship. The creature pulled itself higher and massive black eyes, at least as tall as Nadia, stared at her. Nadia’s heart hammered at her chest, warning her to run, but she felt drawn in by those eyes. There was an intelligence in them with a hint of innocence, just as Van Clout had said.
The kraken hit the side of Nadia’s boat with her tentacle, knocking Nadia off her feet. She pulled herself onto a bench and grabbed her notebook and pencil. The tentacle moved to the mast and its tip knocked on the wood. Nadia wrote out the dots and dashes.
You not Von Clout.
Nadia grabbed the rubber mallet from her toolbox and tapped it against the side of her own boat.
I am Von Clout’s friend Nadia.
The large black eyes seemed to search her.
Where Von Clout?
Nadia blew out her breath. If a sentient kraken existed, then mermaids probably existed. The next question was how large a vocabulary they’d taught the creature. Van Clout’s journal suggested short sentences and simple concepts.
Dead, Nadia tapped.
Water slapped against Nadia’s vessel as she waited.
Sorry.
I came to finish his promise.
To fly?
Nadia nodded. Yes. To fly.
I am Priscilla. How do I fly?
Nadia stretched her neck as she picked up the first waterproof tube carrying her plans. She hoped this kraken could see the diagrams. She’d redrawn maps in basic structures and had drawn the simplest pictures possible. Hopefully, the squid would understand enough to cooperate.
The sun was setting as Nadia sped toward her rendezvous with the Exundo. Matters would be easier without explaining Priscilla was beneath the surface, following Nadia back to port. She’d prefer not to ride the passenger ship and dodge questions, but her small ship’s fuel reserves would only carry her halfway to the continent.
Right on schedule, the ocean liner appeared on the horizon.
Approaching, Nadia wondered if she was going mad herself. The steel under her feet was real and steady. Yet, she’d spent the past few hours conversing with something which shouldn’t exist. Perhaps her next project should involve a unicorn. Priscilla might even know one.
Once she was alongside the Exundo, she attached the waiting cables to the hooks on her boat. With a whir, engines pulled her vessel up to the main deck. She handed up her tubes and supplies before climbing up the ladder.
The assigned deckhands made polite conversation with questions like, “How was your trip?” and held back inquiries on the true purpose of her journey.
Nadia gave them monosyllable answers as she stepped onboard. Once she and her gear were in her cabin, she leaned against the wall and shut her eyes.
Before today’s meeting, she was sure she’d still think of Priscilla as a beast. Now, she realized Van Clout was right. Priscilla’s innocence was charming. Her tentacles were strong enough to snap a ship in half and she could swallow Nadia whole, yet she seemed a child needing to be nurtured.
Someone pounded on her door shouting, “Miss DeLayne! Miss DeLayne!”
Nadia opened the door and raised an eyebrow at a breathless young crewman covered in grease.
“One of the boilers ... they said you helped design it. There’s something wrong with—”
The roar of an explosion echoed as the floor buckled and Nadia slammed against the wall. The crewman looked back in panic as alarms blared.
“Something wrong with the pressure?” Nadia said.
The crewman nodded as he held his hand to his head. He opened his mouth to speak when another blast rocked through the ship. He waved vaguely to her before sprinting down the corridor. Nadia sprinted toward the steps as doors clanged open and shouts filled the corridor.
A third blast hit as Nadia stumbled out on the deck. Deckhands were already rushing passengers into lifeboats, including Nadia’s small steamship. Nadia ignored her small vessel being commandeered as she stared back at the smoke billowing from the ship’s aft. If any of the engine crew had survived, they’d better escape quickly. Any buildup of heat or cracks from shrapnel and explosions could lead to a chain reaction of boilers blowing.
As Nadia climbed into a wooden lifeboat, she watched the water. Priscilla was out there, watching the ship sink. Nadia knew too little about the kraken to determine what she would do. If she’d judged Priscilla wrong, the creature might try picking up a few of the rowboats as snacks.
The lifeboat slammed into the water as the boat’s crewman passed out extra oars and called out orders for paddling. Nadia took an oar and joined in the rowing. As they cleared from where the sinking ship would pull them down, she dared look back.
Nadia held her breath, praying to a deity she wasn’t sure she believed in. Everyone should have escaped.
Water lapped along the sides of the lifeboats while the Exundo descended into the water. As the light turned into the blue shades of twilight, the ship made its final ripple and was gone. Nadia stood with the other survivors, their hats removed.
The night wore on with small rations, fits of sleep, and flares lighting the sky. Nadia stayed awake, watching each ripple for a sign of Priscilla. At dawn a man began a cheery song to break the morning chill, but Nadia did not join. Instead, she leaned her head on the paddle and shut her eyes.
Shouting erupted and Nadia opened her eyes. Something hard thumped against the lifeboat and several men screamed. She spat out a curse as she stood. The man beside her grabbed her belt and pulled her down.
“Hold still!”
She cringed at the next thump, waiting for the massive tentacles to prove her wrong about Priscilla and wrap around the boat.
The tightness in her chest eased as a large, gray fin rose out of the water. The shark was at least as long as the lifeboat but was no kraken. She began to smile until she noticed the panicked faces around her. Now was not the time to relax.
The crewman picked up his pike and tracked the shark as it slid along. The shark swerved and rammed the boat again. Nadia gripped the side and leaned to help steady the vessel as it tilted up on one side.
The shark circled once more as the crewman tried to aim his spear. Water churned as the shark swam toward them again. Its teeth-filled snout shot from the water, its mouth open and ready to devour. Everyone hunched down. A brave man shot up and thwacked the shark across the nose with an oar, the wood cracking and breaking.
The water frothed as the shark turned away. Nadia let herself breathe as the other men and women held onto the boat, watching for the fin.
The shark rose again, driving for the lifeboat. The crewman tossed the brave man the pike and the man held the weapon high.
The shark approached. Water sprayed as a pair of massive white tentacles sprung from the ocean and wrapped around it. The tentacles pulled down while the shark struggled, its powerful muscles unable to escape from the squid’s grasp.
“Row!” yelled the crewman as he grabbed the rudder. A man took the center oars and Nadia joined a few others with the spare oars.
As they rowed, Nadia bit her cheek to keep from grinning. Under her breath, she said, “Come on, Priscilla. Help us out, girl.”
She and the other survivors rowed with all their power, pulling the boat away from the roiling battle as the shark and tentacles tossed about in the water.
Water sprayed, followed by a too-quiet stillness. Nadia and her fellow survivors kept rowing even as they pulled further from the other lifeboats. Her arms ached as the crewman called for them to hold.
Wiping her forehead with the back of her hand, she glanced into the ocean. Priscilla moved through the water like a cloud beneath the surface.
Screams broke out as a tentacle rose from the water and knocked on the side of the boat. The crewman wielding the pike started to stand, but Nadia grabbed his arm.
“Put that down. She’s trying to help.”
“She?” the young man said. “Is this thing your pet?”
Priscilla knocked again.
For lack of a better explanation, Nadia said, “Yes.” She reached into her pocket and pulled out her notepad and pencil. “And she’s trying to tell us something.”
“You can’t talk to a giant squid,” the crewman said. “Let’s go.”
“She uses Morse code.”
The survivors were silent as they stared at her. Nadia held her face firm even though these were the same incredulous stares Van Clout had faced.
The tentacle thunked against the side once more.
A bearded man’s face scrunched and then his eyebrow raised. “That is Morse code. I think it’s saying, ‘Are you safe?’, but I can’t quite follow.” He looked at Nadia. “Who are you?”
“She’s Hans Van Clout’s assistant,” said another man at the rear of the boat.
“I’m Nadia DeLayne.” Mustering Van Clout’s confidence, she sat up and said, “And this is Priscilla, who will soon be Van Clout’s Magnificent, Flying Giant Squid.”
After several rounds of tapping back and forth with Nadia, Priscilla used her tentacles to push the lifeboats together. The usual shouting and screaming echoed through the water, but the humans followed Nadia’s orders to tie the tiny ships together. Priscilla put one tentacle through the loop Nadia held out and then propelled herself and her small ships together.
Fish and dolphins scattered as she swam. The journey took a full day and night, with a few hours for Priscilla to rest. As the sun rose, they approached the shore and the long planks of wood and stone the humans had built over the water.
Wait in the bay, Nadia tapped.
Priscilla released the boats and settled herself on a sunken ship lying among the kelp beds. The other marine life kept a wide berth around her while she rested, letting her tentacles float.
Several days passed. Back in her collection of ships, the smaller fish had learned not to fear her and would swim close by. Every now and then mermaids, octopi, and other cephalopods would visit. Sitting here, among strangers, reminded her of the loneliness of being a giant in the sea.
Once Nadia helped her fly, however, everyone would know her.
Nadia half-listened as her chief foreman, Jackson, ran through the list of checks with his crew leaders. Jackson had worked on the last three projects and she trusted the man’s sharp eye and firm hand with his workers. The rest of her attention was on the chatter around her. Every day since his death, she’d missed Van Clout for his friendship, mentorship, and vision. Today, she missed him standing as a shield between her and all of this political noise.
“Two-thirds of the ships which should be in port are sitting out there, too afraid to approach your beast. The other third’ve headed north to other ports. I can’t have this, Ms. DeLayne.”
“We’ve three hours till launch, Mayor Graham,” she said as she ran her hand over the aluminum hull. “This is Hans Van Clout’s final masterpiece. When we succeed, there’ll be enough press to take care of the trouble we’re causing.”
Van Clout would have said something more charming, but Nadia didn’t have time for nonsense. The air tank was being filled, the boilers were heating up, and, in a half-hour, the ship would be ready to rise. All she needed was the final check from Jackson and for Priscilla to move into position.
“What do you plan to do with the creature?” one of the few reporters she’d allowed in said. “Professor Bratven says you’re going to donate it to the royal aquarium. Is this true?”
She walked away from the reporters and photographers as the mayor grumbled. Wealthy patrons seeking to buy a ride on the first voyage begged for her time. She ignored them as she made final checks. She wasn’t going to risk any more lives than she had to. Everything had been measured with precision, but something could still go wrong.
Jackson, the captain, and various crew leaders checked in, giving their approval to launch after a third check. Nadia wished she could examine every rivet and bolt but there was no time. The launch had been announced for today. If she failed, she had nothing. Few investors would risk funding her projects and Van Clout’s name would be further thrashed.
She feigned confidence as she came to the bridge and took her seat beside the controls connected to the glass tank waiting in the water. Lifting this tank with Priscilla inside would prove, without a doubt, the strength of the Portentum and Van Clout’s legacy.
Priscilla pushed from her throne among the kelp and followed the pounding through the water, just as Nadia had said.
She jetted toward the sound until the point of her head hit something clear but solid. Pressing her tentacles to the surface, she tried to understand why she couldn’t move forward. Nadia’s pictures had shown a box Priscilla would ride in. Priscilla’s tentacles sought for all four sides as she swam inside.
She thumped against the side: Ready
A clanking echoed as the clear cage rose. The water sloshed around her and Priscilla’s body smashed against the glass. Panic spread along her tentacles as the cage swayed and she was raised above the water. She pressed her tentacles to the walls, trying to hold steady.
The swaying became a violent jerk, shoving Priscilla against a wall. Something cold and metal thwacked her tentacle and she tried to pull her appendage back. A chain tangled around her tentacle, digging in and sending sharp pain. She thrashed to try to break free as the cage wobbled and jerked about, threatening to drop her.
The mermaids said not to listen to humans. Kraken weren’t meant to fly. She’d been safe back in the ocean instead of in this trap. She should have listened to the mermaids. She shouldn’t have come.
The dirigible shook as Nadia leaned over the control panel and punched letters into the machine connected to the rubber mallet hitting a wall of the tank. A sensor attached to the tank would read any vibrations, allowing Priscilla to respond. Right now the sensor was waving wildly as the kraken bashed at the walls of the tank.
“I have to rebalance the engines every time it thrashes,” the pilot said as she pulled on the lever to raise the Portentum. “The whole ship’s going to crash if we don’t drop the weight.”
“Hold on,” Nadia said while changing the message to Priscilla to only the word “calm.”
She couldn’t drop the tank. There had to be a way to soothe Priscilla. She’d looked the beast in the eye out in the middle of the ocean. There was intelligence there. She didn’t know if a kraken was capable of friendship, but she had to hope the beast would trust her.
Over the speaking tube, Jackson shouted, “A chain’s broken. There’s so many tentacles flying, I can’t send anyone down to fix it.”
Nadia’s fingers clamped on her armrest. The chains should have been strong enough to hold the weight of the creature and water. She’d made the calculations a dozen times and doubled her estimates.
Even with the powerful engines and gas strong enough to balance the weight, they weren’t going anywhere with a broken chain. Sitting here on the bridge wasn’t going to do any good.
“I’m coming,” Nadia said into the speaking horn by her station. She turned her chair and faced the pilot. “Lower the ship till the tank’s on the water.” She pointed to one of the bridge crew. “You, watch the panel.”
As the crew followed her orders, she sprinted toward the maintenance hatch at the aft of the ship. She grabbed a handhold as she stopped beside Jackson and looked out.
Five of the six chains hooked to the open-topped glass tank were taut and creaking, but holding. The remainder of the sixth chain was whipping about, while the end still attached to the tank was wrapped around one of Priscilla’s tentacles. The kraken’s other tentacles thrashed against the tank and sturdy chains.
“If the beast can hold still, my crew and I can fix it,” Jackson said.
The tank rested against the ocean’s surface, waves cresting out as Priscilla continued to fight.
Nadia grabbed a maintenance harness and pulled it on.
“What are you doing?”
“I’m heading down to calm her.” She tugged on an aviator cap, goggles, and gloves. “Once she’s calm, your crew needs to work fast.”
“You can’t—”
Nadia glared at Jackson as she snapped the last buckle on the harness. He groaned as he hooked her to a maintenance cable tethered to the ship.
“Be careful,” he said. “I don’t like working for the other inventors.”
Nadia’s breakfast threatened to visit again as Jackson lowered her toward the tank. One bash of a tentacle and she was looking at a broken neck. She had better be right.
She let out a curse as a tentacle swung toward her. Leaning to the side, she barely dodged. The cable holding her shook, and the engines shuddered. Hovering was rough on any dirigible. Nadia would have to fix that on her next design, if she lived past today.
A tentacle knocked against her cable, sending her into a spin. Nadia held her legs out in a sitting position and kept her arms to her sides. She gasped as she bashed against the side of the tank. As she swung away, her arm stung. It either wasn’t broken or was too numb to tell.
Forcing herself to breathe calmly, she waited for her cable to swing back toward the tank. This time, she hit the side of the tank with her feet. Her knees ached from the impact, but she held steady. She stretched her uninjured arm up and grabbed the top of the tank and kicked the side of the tank as hard as she could. She knocked on the glass as hard as she could with her foot.
Priscilla’s eyes turned toward the thumping at the side of the cage. Nadia made a silent prayer as she kicked, Stop.
The tentacles lowered, except the one caught in the chain and Priscilla tapped against the wall.
Stuck. Hurts.
Nadia looked up. At least three of Jackson’s crew were harnessed and ready to fix this mess. She was close, but had to be careful.
To Priscilla, she thumped, Be still and we will fix.
The whole tank shook as Priscilla pulled with her chained tentacle. Nadia reached out her injured arm and barely caught hold of the tank’s lid. She held tight.
The chain had to be digging in and hurting. With the rest of Priscilla’s tentacles still, Nadia pulled herself toward where the chain was snagged. The chain seemed to be just looped around the tentacle. That would be much easier to deal with than if snarled.
Nadia was almost to where the tank tilted down due to the broken chain, when her cable went taut. She tried to pull herself forward again, but the cable pulled her back. Looking up at Jackson several stories higher, she motioned for him to let out the cable. He waved his arms. There was no more cable.
She only needed a little more length. Nadia moved back to the closest steady chain and pulled herself up so she was straddling the eight-inch wide lip of the tank, one leg in the water. She unhooked the cable from her harness and attached it to the chain. Keeping an eye on Priscilla’s tentacles, she scooted back to the corner.
She stretched out her arm and was barely able to reach the chain on Priscilla’s appendage. Each time she unlooped the chain, her chest eased a little. She allowed herself to smile as she tossed the chain over one more time, freeing Priscilla. As she began to scoot back, Priscilla’s tentacle swung, hitting Nadia in the head.
While white blobs filled Nadia’s vision, she splashed into the tank.
Priscilla moved her eyes closer to Nadia, watching her float in the water. She waited for the human to kick and struggle as others had done before. There was no movement.
She had only meant to stretch her tentacle. Even when trying not to harm humans, she failed.
With only a little hope, Priscilla wrapped her tentacle around Nadia and shook her. The human’s arms flopped and her head shook back and forth. Just as Priscilla let go, Nadia’s eyes opened and her legs kicked. Priscilla pushed Nadia onto the cage’s edge and into the air humans seemed to need.
Several humans dangled from cables and grabbed Nadia. Priscilla held still as the humans carried Nadia into the flying machine.
Humans moved between the chains above, carrying sticks with fire as they reattached the broken chain. Priscilla laid in the bottom of the tank. She could try to escape, but she had come so far for a chance to fly.
Something thumped against the cage.
This is Nadia. I am safe. Be still and we will fly.
Priscilla’s tentacles relaxed, and she let herself float in the water as she looked toward the open ocean. Just as Hans Van Clout and Nadia had promised, the flying machine inched into the air, rising over the bay and shore. Humans were packed along the wooden planks and square ships built on land, their eyes fixed on Priscilla. She thought through the human interactions she’d observed and chose the rising and falling of an appendage. No one returned the gesture but she’d done her best.
The machine carried her along the shore, over cliffs and marshes, over above-land mountains and fields of dark green. She looked up at the sun, the brightness stinging her eyes as its warmth settled into her skin. Birds flew past and the machine flew higher until they were near the clouds.
She rode through the sky for hours, pulling herself up now and then to feel the wind rush over her. The world was so different this high, far from the view within the sea.
The machine turned and soared over the ocean, soon leaving the land a distant speck on the horizon. As the machine lowered, she saw her tower of ships protruding from the water. Her tentacle pressed against the glass as they moved closer. Flying had been more than she dreamed of, but home beckoned.
A thump pounded: Are you ready for the ocean again?
She thudded a tentacle against the wall.
Am ready. Thank you, Nadia.
The reply came: You’re welcome, Priscilla, and thank you.
The tank crashed against the water’s surface and lowered into the sea. Once it was submerged, Priscilla used her tentacles to pull herself out. She swam to her tower of ships and climbed on top. Looking up at the humans, she made one last attempt at waving her appendage before submerging herself in the water and returning home.
Nadia’s chest eased as she leaned against the viewport, holding a cool rag to her aching head. Everything had worked as it should. Waking in the tank had been terrifying until Priscilla had pulled her out of the water so gently. There was far more to this kraken than most could see. She belonged in the ocean, free from human control.
Priscilla raised herself to the top of the ships and seemed to wave a tentacle. Nadia smiled and waved back.
“You can’t let it go,” Mayor Graham said. “Think of everything we’d learn from it. Think of—”
Nadia leaned on the half-wall beside the viewport and glared at the man.
“She fulfilled more than her bargain,” she said. “And saved my life. I think she’s done enough.”
As Priscilla sank back beneath the water, the Portentum turned back toward shore. Once they landed, everything would be a whirlwind of reporters and well-wishers. She’d have to hire someone to bother with such distractions. Based on the wide-eyed wonder she’d seen in the crowds below, Van Clout’s legacy was secure.
She pressed her hand to the window as she looked toward the horizon. A tear fell along her cheek, and she smiled.
“We did it, Hans.”

An Adventurer’s Heart

Sweat dripped down Melinda’s back, but she ignored it, holding still, breathing slowly, waiting for the right moment to loose her arrow. Just a little farther to the left....
“Get out of the way.” A gruff man moved in front of her. With gaps in his yellow-toothed grimace, he knocked her bow and arrow to the side. “You’re liable to hurt someone.”
Melinda grimaced. The soft thumping of furry paws from the hare running away meant she’d have no dinner that night. Again.
The man kept heckling her, but she ignored him, stomping away and leaving the forest behind. Every copper she found or earned she was stockpiling to purchase a sword. Once upon a time, she had more money than she could ever need, the inheritance she gained when her parents passed.
But their departing to the next plane had not been a peaceful experience. A sea-horse called Helga the Horrific attacked their ship while they had been on a voyage. Melinda had stayed behind to tend to the house, a girl all of nine.
They never returned home.
Too young to tackle such a creature by herself, Melinda squandered most of her parents’ wealth to hire supposed heroes and adventurers to avenge her parents for her. None succeeded. Some never bothered to even try, just took her coins and ran. One lost his life. Two at least injured the hippocampus.
But Helga the Horrific still lived, and Melinda, during the past many years, had taken to training herself in the sword and the bow. Her father’s blade she lost while engaging a kelpie. Who knew the creature could freeze metal as well as a person?
So now she spent her hours working hard at odd jobs to fetch whatever coins she could, and during her spare time, she trained her body. A terrible, thankless life, but she would not rest. Not yet.
Her stomach grumbled, but she ignored her hunger. Once she was certain no other wanderer was near her, the shadows lengthening from the edge of the forest, she removed her coin pouch from her belt. Actually, she might already have enough saved for a dinged and dented sword. Not a finely crafted one like her father’s, but as long as the edge was sharp, what did it matter if the hilt was fashioned from gold or another metal?
She pressed onward to town and entered the local tavern. Even if she couldn’t spare a copper for some hot soup or a bed, at least she would not be alone.
From her perch in the back corner, she watched a man enter. He ordered himself an ale and another and another, and soon he seemed ready to fall off his stool.
If she were a less honorable person, she would consider relieving him of the rest of his coin pouch, but she wasn’t the only person to think that. A small, sniveling man was making his way over, trying to be inconspicuous.
Melinda wandered over, making sure to keep one hand on her own coin pouch to protect it, and bumped into the would-be thief. His glower gave way to a shrug, and he slunk away.
She glared at him until he left the inn and then sat next to the drunk.
“All alone,” he muttered. “I have nothing....”
Her snort was loud. He had enough coin to waste on drinking away his sorrows. That was more than she had.
“I might be able to fashion weapons, but I can’t wield one....” He buried his face in his hands.
“Wait. You’re a blacksmith?”
He said nothing.
“What happened?” she demanded.
Still, he did not reply.
“If you need someone to wield a weapon....” she started.
But he placed his head down on the table and snored.
The bar wench walked over. “I’ll make sure he gets home.” She smiled sadly at him but before Melinda could ask for details, the bar wench returned to work.
Intrigued, Melinda began to have a germ of an idea....
Once the rising sun woke her, Melinda found herself some berries and nuts for a quick meal to break her fast. Onward she went to the blacksmith’s. The wall of heat nearly forced her back outside.
Yes, the man working was the drunk from last night, and he worked hard, showing no signs of being hung over. Bare-chested, his body gleamed with sweat, and, despite the gray in his hair, he did not seem old.
He stepped away from the open flame and stood before her. “What do you want?”
“I—”
“Not interested.”
Melinda scowled and crossed her arms. The dismissal annoyed her. She stomped over to a table and dumped out the contents of her purse. “I want a sword, and you will give me one.”
He glanced over and shook his head. “Not—”
“I could be the one you need,” she said quietly.
A flicker of emotion flashed in his eyes, too quickly for her to recognize it. “What are you talking about?”
She flushed and said nothing. After all, she did not know why he needed a warrior. Could she risk her life for someone else’s quest when she hadn’t fulfilled her own yet?
He gave her a long onceover. “Decent shot, I suppose?”
“The quiver give that away?” She tucked a wisp of red hair behind her ear.
“Your arms look strong. Strong legs, too. Bet you can run and ride. Do you have Amazon blood coursing through your veins?”
Women with amazing strength, endurance, and power. A legendary race although more and more accounts of real Amazons had been whispered lately. A rare compliment, and a sense of pleasure coursed through her. “I wouldn’t know. My parents died long ago.”
“And obviously an adventurer’s heart,” he continued.
A reckless smile settled on her lips. “I guess you can say that. Give me a sword and I can prove it.”
If she could live to see the day Helga the Horrific was defeated, she would be free to do whatever she wished instead of trying to escape the guilt consuming her. If she had been with her parents, she would have perished, too, yes, but living without them for so many hard and lonely years was eating away at her.
“I’m Drake.”
She was tempted to say that she didn’t care, but he was taking an interest in her finally, and perhaps that would mean he was warming up to selling her a weapon. “A decent sword,” she demanded, pushing the coins toward him.
“That’s not enough for a sword.” He slapped a dagger onto the table.
“A dagger won’t do me any good.” Her stomach churned as she gathered her coins. She would rather work harder and earn more coppers than be given such a trifle for her efforts.
“Wait.” Drake stared at her in a way she found unnerving. “I ... Yes. Yes, you’ll do.” He seemed to be talking more to himself than to her.
She stilled. He would use her for his quest after all. “I’ll do for what?”
“I used to live in the next town over, Hilfalls, but all of the villagers have fled. Many were killed. I want you to avenge their deaths and kill the beast that destroyed that fair place.”
“Your wife,” she guessed.
“Nay, my fiancée.” He swallowed hard, his grief evident.
“And you—”
“I tried. As did many of the other villagers. But we were a small town and had no knights, no warriors. I make weapons. I don’t wield them. Rosamarie had been my whole life. Now I have nothing but my work.” His knuckles whitened as he secured the dagger’s hilt within his grasp.
“Tell me about the beast.”
“Glatisant. A large, dangerous creature with the head of a serpent, the body of a lion. Makes a strange sound, almost like a dog.” He spat out the words with disgust and hatred, his eyes full of rage. “They call him Frostclaw.”
“Is Frostclaw poisonous?”
“Extremely. One bite, and you have, at most, an hour to live. Rosamarie lasted just ten minutes.” Tears ran down Drake’s face, and Melinda felt his sorrow. She knew all about being alone in the world.
While she felt deeply moved by his story, she could not help recalling the adventurers who had died trying to avenge her parents. “How can I go up against such a creature without a sword?”
“I will lend you one.” He walked over toward the far wall, where a wide assortment of weapons was displayed. Drake selected a beautiful weapon but kept it in his hands as he returned to her. “If you are to succeed, an ordinary blade like this will not be enough.”
“Can you enchant the blade?”
“Not without gems. And I know where you can find them.” He glanced toward the west.
She followed his gaze. Mount Gavel, home of a large dragon, one that Melinda had already been studying, as the thought of stealing gems to finance her quest for revenge had crossed her mind on more than one occasion.
“You want me to steal from a dragon’s hoard of treasures?” Just saying it aloud screamed how insane, foolhardy, and reckless embarking on such a quest would be.
Fortune hunters often failed to survive to tell the tale, prompting the old saying that a dragon and its treasure were never parted, not even by the dragon’s death. Then again, Melinda had patience whereas others rushed in without a plan. She did know the layout of the caves within the mountain. Maybe she would have a chance.
“Yes,” Drake said without blinking. “You would need an amethyst, the largest one you can find. They protect against poison. Many healers have amethysts tucked in their pockets because they also help with meditation.”
She nodded. “Anything else?”
“A pyrite might be a good idea. The shield stone. It increases stamina. Something an adventurer would need, in great quantities.”
“An amethyst and a pyrite. Very well. I’ll need the sword now.” She held out her hand.
Drake held it out of reach. “How can I be sure you won’t run off with it?”
“I am doing you a bloody favor,” she said through gritted teeth. “I should be the one asking you what you will give me once I give you that blasted creature’s head.”
“Fine. You may borrow the sword to gain the gemstones. I’ll enchant the blade, and you kill Frostclaw. Then the enchanted blade will be yours. I’m not a warrior. I’m not a knight. I can’t kill it myself. I’ll just die too, but you ... you might be able to avenge the town for me. Will that suffice?”
A ripple of excitement ran down her spine. Not only a sword but one with an enchanted blade! Surely she would be able to avenge her parents with it one day!
She only considered for a moment before announcing, “I promise.”
The sun winked, casting hues of orange and red into the darkening sky. Twilight descended as she hurried to the mountain, and soon she began to scale Mount Gavel, passing several diminutive caves, all too small to house a fully grown dragon. Finally, as darkness settled over the land, Melinda located the correct cave, her fingers finding the grooves in a stone archway. Three horizontal claw marks with a much deeper perpendicular one.
A blast of hot air overwhelmed Melinda the moment she stepped foot into the dragon’s cave. Heat pressed against her body like an oppressive cloak. As she neared the heart of the cave, the stones glowed with white light. The ground, burned by the dragon’s fire, even produced some heat as well. The warmth seeped through her calf-skin boots.
Melinda moved swiftly, but not at a run so as to conserve energy, and she took great pains to listen. A few steps later, she heard a low deep growl and the sound of flapping wings. Melinda halted and held her breath, careful to shield her thoughts as she had all along. Dragons were supremely intelligent creatures, rumored to be able to hear the thoughts of lesser beings, humans included.
Was the dragon merely re-positioning herself, or was she readying to take flight?
Fortunately, the sound of flapping wings intensified then faded, letting Melinda hear the nervous flutters of her heart.
At long last, the cave widened into an enormous room, large enough to fit an entire castle. In the center lay gems of all sizes, shapes, and colors, as well as coins and gold, even a crown.
From behind the treasure, a shadow emerged. Melinda sharply inhaled and crept back to avoid being detected as the dragon moved in front of the treasure horde and used its tail to lift some gems to the top of the pile. With garnet eyes and midnight blue teeth, the dragon stretched out its wings, which nearly spanned the entire room. Although lean, the creature appeared to be a solid mass of muscle. The dragon’s scales glittered blue in spots, black in others. Melinda tightened her grip on the sword.
The dragon used an ivory claw to pick a tooth.
Just one slash would rip me to shreds.
The height of the cave reached sky high, a cathedral-like ceiling with a tiny speck of an opening at the top. A few stars twinkled above the exit. Could that dragon, skinny as it was, really fit through that small crevice?
As if the dragon heard her thoughts even though she concealed them by keeping them behind a mental wall, the dragon took flight, swooping around its treasure pile. Its wings weren’t spread completely but folded back upon themselves. Soaring higher and higher, the dragon spiraled its way through the opening and out of the mountain.
Melinda waited several minutes in case the dragon returned, in case the dragon had heard her thoughts, but when the winged beast did not return, she rushed to the treasure and tucked an oval pyrite into her coin purse. A small heart-shaped amethyst caught her eye, but she ignored it for an amethyst larger than her hands though rough and unpolished. A jagged sapphire and a huge rock of an opal quickly disappeared, clanking as it jostled the other gems.
A loud thump behind Melinda caused her to whirl around, a citrine dropping to the floor and rolling to the dragon’s feet.
‘Foolish human,’ the dragon said telepathically. ‘Did you really think that I did not know you were there?’
The harsh thoughts flooded Melinda’s mind, and she grabbed her pounding head. “Get out of my mind, dragon!”
Damn! Why had she been so greedy? She should have only grabbed the stones the blacksmith had mentioned and gotten out of there immediately.
‘You are in no position to negotiate.’
Why isn’t it attacking me? It’s stalling. Melinda carefully kept her thoughts secluded from the dragon.
A sound echoed throughout the cavern. Plip. Plop. Dark drops dripped down its wing and landed on the cave floor, a small puddle forming. Blood. The dragon had been wounded during its venture from the mountain.
‘Aye, I’m wounded. And I’m not an it either. I’m Doomia.’
So much for her being able to block her thoughts. ‘Do you care to know who I am?’
‘You call yourself Melinda. You crave adventure. Now, tell me one reason, Melinda the Adventurer, why I shouldn’t kill you.’
Melinda stared at the powerful, imposing creature before her, yet she felt no fear. She doubted the dragon would care about her desire to become strong enough to go after the hippocampus or about her deal with the blacksmith.
So she merely mindspoke, ‘I don’t need a reason. You already have one.’ Otherwise, I would have been dead as soon as you returned.
Doomia’s eyes narrowed to almost nothing, and a huff of steam expelled from her nostrils. The dragon tapped a glistening, white razor sharp claw against the ground. ‘A stupid harpy attacked me. She surprised me. She’s too small and fast for me to rip her head off. If you bring me the head, you can leave, unharmed.’
‘And if I just leave and not kill the harpy?’
‘I will hunt you down and kill you.’ The dragon almost smiled. ‘I won’t die from this.’
‘You’ll let me leave unharmed and with the treasure in my coin purse,’ Melinda bargained.
A thin stream of fire left Doomia’s mouth, dying out nowhere near Melinda. She held her ground. The light from the fire allowed Melinda to see the dragon’s color, more blue than black. Paler than before its flight. It ... she is more injured than she is letting on.
‘Fine. Go now. The nest is a meter up the mountain.’
Melinda sprinted before the dragon could change her mind. A harpy—foul-smelling death mongers—would be a much easier foe to face than a dragon, even a wounded one. Although this harpy somehow managed to wound a dragon....
At least Melinda had experience fighting against harpies. She had battled one to a draw two years ago.
Once removed from the dragon’s line of sight, Melinda slowed her pace, not wishing to expend too much energy before the coming battle. The harpy would have the advantage of its wings, but she had a longer reach with her blade. At least the harpy’s resemblance to an eagle stopped short of keen night vision. The darkness would hinder them both equally.
As soon as Melinda reached the exit, she gripped the hilt of the sword with both hands, her gaze darting all around. The night hung high in the sky, without a cloud in sight.
A loud screech sounded, and Melinda was careful not to tighten her muscles as she left the cave behind and turned behind her.
The harpy was perched on a large boulder a short distance away. A female head with overly long black feathers in lieu of hair, the harpy eyed Melinda with huge unblinking pupil-less eyes. Brown and black striped wings were folded by her side, and shorter smaller feathers covered her torso. Her face looked grotesque and ugly, as was common with the creatures, more monsters than hybrids. Black blood covered her eagle claws, and when she smiled, she revealed horrifically overcrowded fangs for teeth, all coated with that same black blood.
Melinda scanned the horizon quickly. No other harpies were in sight, but the dragon had mentioned a nest, so it was possible others lurked nearby.
“You smell of her,” the harpy said.
“You attacked her,” Melinda returned.
“A friend of yours?”
“No more than yours.”
The harpy’s laugh was more a grating, terrible wail than a sound of joy. “Yet you’re here on her behalf.”
“No offense.”
“Went after her treasure, didn’t you.” The harpy cocked her head to the side. “We could join forces. Kill her off. Split the treasure.”
Considering the damage the harpy did, it was a tempting offer, and Melinda considered it. Harpies, in general, could not be trusted, though. Dragons, well, they were fierce, yes, and if you crossed them, they would hunt you down and take their time killing you, but a dragon ally would be supremely beneficial.
“Are there other harpies near here?” Melinda asked.
The harpy let out a low hiss. “That blasted dragon hunted down and killed my family while they slept.”
So revenge had been the harpy’s motivation.
“And why did the dragon kill them?”
Another hiss sounded, and the harpy gnashed her teeth. They glistened and glittered like tiny daggers. “We might’ve gone after her treasure. She spotted us trying to grab some jewels. We gave them all back, but she just—”
“Fought to protect her treasure.”
The harpy narrowed her eyes and let out a screeching cry. She flew faster than Melinda would’ve thought possible, but the sword forced the harpy back. The winged beast had the advantage of higher ground, but the harpy’s fierce and frantic attack required too much energy. Melinda almost lazily moved the sword to block each would be blow until the harpy’s human face twisted with exhaustion.
Melinda’s arm muscles screamed, but she held her ground, waiting, biding her time, and when the harpy took a wild swipe at her, Melinda finally switched from defense to offense, and with a strong hack, she brought the sword down on the harpy’s neck.
It wasn’t a fierce enough blow to kill the harpy, but it sent her spiraling to the mountainside. At once, Melinda darted forward and stomped on the harpy’s wing to prevent her from flying away.
“I wear your face!” the harpy said. “I’m part human. That dragon—"
Melinda’s sword cut off the harpy’s speech as it severed the head from its body. Her stomach lurched as she picked it up to give the dragon proof of the kill, and she returned to the dragon’s treasure room.
Already the dragon was healing herself, transforming before Melinda’s eyes from a weak, feeble, dying creature to her darker, stronger form.
Melinda walked over, dragging the sword beside her. “Here,” she said, opting to talk out loud instead of with her mind.
The dragon peeked open an eye. ‘You did it. Good.’ She closed her eyes.
Melinda lingered.
Without opening her eyes, the dragon added, ‘Why are you still here? You got what you wanted. Now go.’
“Did you kill that harpy’s family?”
‘Is that what she said? Damn harpy. Probably also said she went after my treasure, too.’
“What did she go after?”
Doomia puffed smoke once, twice, three times. Melinda figured the dragon wouldn’t answer when she finally mindspoke, ‘She ate my eggs.’
Melinda gasped. “I’m—”
‘I don’t want your apologies. Just go.’
Melinda glanced at the treasure mound on last time. “Goodbye.”
‘If you come back, I won’t hesitate to kill you.’
“Mayhap I could earn more jewels.”
The dragon roared, a loud and booming sound that filled the cave, almost like a laugh. ‘Like I would willingly give an undeserving human my treasure. I told you to leave.’
‘I’m going. I’m going.’
Melinda exited the cave, the moon a swollen silver orb high in the sky. She quickly killed three wild fowl. One she cooked and ate. Although she had no coin, she was able to sweet talk a bartender for a room at the tavern. In exchange, she gave him the other two fowl.
She had done it. She had lived through the greatest thrill of her life.
Already she was thinking that she just might be getting strong enough to take on Helga the Horrific herself.
Bright light poured into the room. Melinda stretched, causing the jewels in her coin purse to jingle. The first leg of her promise complete, she hurried to the blacksmith and dumped the jewels onto the table.
Drake eyed the gems, carefully inspecting each piece before placing them back down. He lovingly caressed the opal. “You not only survived, you got more than you needed.”
“I did. Will you imbue the sword with all of them?” Melinda held up the sapphire, the fire in the background causing the dark blue gem to sparkle and shine.
“The protection stone. Said to increase intelligence, but I can’t say I’ve actually seen any proof to that claim.” He spun the opal in his hands. “But this gem, this gem. I’m surprised you picked it....”
“The name’s Melinda, and I only grabbed the first ones I saw, after getting the pyrite and sapphire that is.”
“That’s what you think. Regardless, the opal is a powerful stone.”
“In what way?”
“The opal causes the wearer to grow. People aren’t the same after they use an opal for long periods of time.” Drake stared at her. “You want me to adhere them all to your sword’s hilt? Even the opal? Not just the amethyst and pyrite?”
Melinda bit her lip. “Yes. Go ahead.”
“As you desire. Come back in a fortnight. Your sword will be ready then.” He carried the stones next to his anvil.
Melinda turned to the door, but a nagging memory tugged at her. What stone had I grabbed when Doomia startled me? She cleared her throat, and Drake glanced at her, an eyebrow rising. “Tell me about a citrine.”
“Ah, the citrine. A true jewel. They help to realize all your dreams, makes all your desires come true. Wealth, happiness, success. A rare gem in this world. Powerful. Did you manage to get one?”
“No.” A wave of disappointment settled around her. Everything she could have wanted. But Melinda just nodded. “I’ll be back in a fortnight. Be certain the sword is ready.”
Drake set about his work, and Melinda watched for a moment. The flames danced and licked higher as he adjusted the temperature. The stones glowed in the small room, bright shapes of blue and purple lighting up the entire room.
When he grabbed the sword, ready to meddle with the hilt, Melinda left. By helping Drake with his revenge, she was increasing the chances she’d one day avenge her parents, too.
The fortnight passed quickly, and Melinda found herself anxious to retrieve her newly-enchanted blade. As soon as the sun’s rays peeked over the horizon, Melinda strolled through the smithy’s open door.
Drake stood beside the anvil, the sword in his hand, pointing downward. He lifted it up and held it across his hands. Melinda admired his handiwork. The jewels clustered near the blade, below the lion head and wings. A soft whisper resonated from the sword, humming with magical properties, enchanted beyond measure. Even the blade of the sword appeared different, a slight blue shine replaced its earlier dullness.
“It looks wonderful.” Melinda reached out to reclaim the prized sword, but Drake grasped the hilt firmly. “Don’t worry. I won’t fail.”
He handed over the sword and held up his hands in frustration. Pain and despair warred in his eyes as they again began to cloud. “Please, I beg of you, succeed where I have failed.”
“I so swear.”
Hilfalls carried a sense of wretchedness. The entire town seemed dead. Desolation and loneliness drifted on the wind. Dirt and dust covered everything. An eerie silence echoed the isolation as she crept forward. Dead bodies littered the streets, their faces contorted with pain, their bodies covered with blood long since dried. Her stomach churned at the sight.
Many of the windows were broken, the houses ransacked, furniture overturned, possessions of the dead long gone. Thieves preying on the dead. Rodents of convenience, stealers of heart, sucking the soul from those no longer living. Damn vultures.
The sound of rushing water drew Melinda to a cracked fountain. Water still dripped, mixing with the dirt, and muddied up her feet. Must be recent destruction. Frostclaw is close by.
Behind the fountain, Melinda discovered another body. This one still had a knife in one hand, the other clutching his swollen coin purse. One of the thieves. Glad he got what he deserved. Deep purple bruises had formed on his skin in the shape of a small broken “v.”
Stones littered the ground, pieces of the houses. This Glatisant has certainly done damage to the entire town, not just its people. Must be one fearsome creature.
A low rumbling whispered on the breeze, but as Melinda turned in a circle, she couldn’t distinguish the source. A sudden rush of wind from above her head, and the clattering on the roofs startled her. She nearly lost her balance as Frostclaw landed in front of her.
A hideous creature, part snake, lion, leopard, and deer. The serpent head and neck glanced around, long and sleek, even turning its head completely around. The small beady eyes on either side of its head forced the creature to constantly move its head to resume focus on Melinda.
Frostclaw continually barked, sounding like a wild pack of hounds set loose on a hunt. It had yellow eyes with the darkest black orbs, small nose slits and, despite the scales on its neck, a sleek almost smooth appearance. Its small tongue continually flickered in and out of its pink mouth, dripping with venom.
Its body was yellow-orange, speckled with rosettes, like a leopard, and turned to a lighter buff color toward its haunches. Swatting the black tuft of its tail at swirling bugs from the rotting corpses, the Glatisant continued to eye Melinda, and she shivered. This is not a monster. This creature has intelligence.
It pawed the ground. Its short legs ended with the hooves of a hart. The two separate cleats had made the broken “v” impressions on the bodies.
Without warning, the creature darted forward, its body barreling toward her. She sidestepped and brought up the sword, but Frostclaw continued forward, running away.
It had killed so many innocents already, was it teasing her, testing her? It turned back around, as if waiting for her, and when she raised the sword, the creature reared before jumping over some stones and behind a building, out of sight.
Now there was no question. The creature wanted her to give chase. So she did. The barking never ceased. She passed many more bodies, her anger at the creature mounting. Although no one she knew had died, the idea that an intelligent creature could knowingly seek out and destroy an entire village caused Melinda’s stomach to clench and her teeth to grind. A fleeting thought of her parents made her throat swell up, and Melinda burst forward.
Judging from the barking, the mutant hybrid hid behind the next building. Melinda passed it and hurried down the next alley. The creature’s barking became louder, and it lowered its reptilian head just before Melinda slashed. The sword felt lighter than ever, and the tingle up her arm reminded her of the magic now dwelling within it. The Glatisant backed up several steps as Melinda brought the sword back up, but the creature turned and ran before she could follow through with the arc. She barely missed, chopping off the hairy tuft.
Round and round the ruined village they ran. Frostclaw seemed to enjoy the chase, constantly turning its head around to see if she still followed and never showing any signs of wearing down nor making any attempt to fight back. It’s almost like this is some kind of game. Well, I’m not laughing. And I’m done playing.
Melinda spied a ladder. She shoved the sword back into its sheath and climbed. When she reached the roof, she quickly aimed and fired. The arrow narrowly missed the animal. It stopped and glared at her, its tongue flicking upward. Backtracking, the creature rammed its shoulder into the ladder with such force the entire wooden building shuddered. Melinda leaped to the next rooftop and fired again. The creature ran forward, and Melinda pursued from above, trying to find a decent shot. But I don’t want to waste all my arrows. Wouldn’t it be wonderful if a word could command them to return? Boomerang arrows.
She leaped to another building, this one higher. Her fingers gripped the stone roof, and she clawed her way to the top. Precious seconds passed, and the creature continued its course. Melinda pulled herself up and glanced around. Frostclaw neared the edge of the village and zoomed toward the nearby forest. Melinda fired one more shot, but the creature’s tail knocked it away before it hid behind some trees.
Damnable monster!
She raced to the edge of the roof, tossed down her weapons and quiver, grabbed onto the ledge, and dropped down to the ground, ducking into a roll as she landed to prevent injury. Coughing on the dust, she was forced to pause a moment to catch her breath, and then she retrieved the sword and quiver and grabbed the last discarded arrow. All in all, her endurance seemed stronger than ever, and she could only assume that the pyrite was doing its job.
She thundered through the forest, slashing through the underbrush. The barking sounded all around her. A sudden movement on the forest floor caught her eye, and she stabbed. A small garden variety snake dangled from the sword. Her foot removed the dead animal. The barking became louder, and a sharp pain pinched Melinda’s right arm. She howled and dropped the sword. The venom quickly spread, and her right arm refused to move. The poison must be paralytic. She whirled around and shoved the arrow into Frostclaw’s neck. The creature yelped and ran away, the arrow still lodged.
Melinda grabbed the sword and gave chase. Years ago, she had learned how to use both hands with a regular sword, but it had been years since she had practiced, and this sword was much heavier than an ordinary one. Her one arm hung like a dead weight at her side, causing her balance to shift, slowing her down.
Why isn’t the amethyst working? Or is it preventing the venom from spreading to the rest of my body?
Melinda tripped over a tree root, landing on her stomach, and the remaining arrows in her quiver tumbled over her head. A heavy weight pressed onto her back, and a snake slithered through her hair and onto her shoulder. The forked tongue licked her ear before it reached forward, trying to grab an arrow in its mouth. Stretching so far allowed Melinda to see another arrow protruding from its neck. Melinda attempted to lift herself up and to shove the creature from her back, but her right arm refused to cooperate, and the creature weighed too much for her to roll it off. She jabbed wildly with the sword. Yelps again replaced the barking, music to Melinda’s ears. Frostclaw retreated half a step, enough for Melinda to roll herself beneath the creature as she brought the sword in a sweeping arc and sliced off its head.
The yelps turned to a loud shriek, coming from the monster’s belly, and the deer hooves danced before buckling, dark liquid spraying from its neck wound. Blood covered Melinda as she climbed to her feet and thrust the sword into the creature’s belly and again into its heart. Finally, the Glatisant stopped moving, the shrieks ceasing.
Melinda put the sword away and wiped some blood from her face. Her fingers began to tingle, and she tried to form a fist. Her fingers hardly moved. The blood is poisonous, too.
Slowly she reached for the hilt and touched the amethyst. Strange warmth pulsated from the gem, and the heat spread throughout her body, through her fingers to her chest, even to her numb right arm. Gripping the hilt with fingers that now moved surer, Melinda rubbed the amethyst where the snake had bitten her. A sharp electric shock caused her to cry out. The scent of burning flesh wafted to her nose, and she gagged. Black liquid bubbled from the wound. It dripped onto the ground, causing a sizzling sound when it hit some grass, burning it to ash. Finally, Melinda could feel her arm again.
Melinda tore a large portion of her shirt. In case all of Frostclaw’s body was poisonous, she dared not risk touching the head directly. She wrapped it in the cloth and carried it. On the way back through the forest, she picked up her arrows. She deposited them back into her quiver, but they fell through, and she had to collect them again. Wonderful. Perhaps I can convince Drake to make me one for free.
Melinda hurried back to the blacksmith’s shop. His eyes brightened when he saw her. She handed him the wrapped head. Drake uncovered it, brought it to his face, and whispered words of hatred that weren’t quite audible. Glancing up, he started, surprised. “Why are you still here? I already gave you your reward.”
“I need a new quiver. The Glatisant destroyed it.”
Drake’s brows furrowed, and he nodded toward the wall with the blades. Along the floor were some bows, arrows, and quivers.
She secured the largest one and walked outside. The powerful sun’s rays blinded her. When her vision cleared, her gaze fell upon Mount Gravel in the nearby distance.
What had the dragon called her?
Ah, yes. Melinda the Adventurer.
Yes, indeed.
And her next adventure would be to avenge her parents.
She was ready.

Destiny’s Flight

The loud pounding on my cottage door drove the pleasant dreams from my mind and forced me awake. I wrenched myself away from my place against my wife’s back. Pulling on my tunic and leggings, I wondered what the early visitor wanted. Since I served the Father as a miracle man, my first thought was that someone was injured or sick. Was it Byron’s mother? The young boy spent so much time sick that Kelestria had joked we should move into the cottage next to theirs. The rays slanting through the window announced the dawn had barely broken. Perhaps Kathryn had been kicked when milking her cow. She might have forgotten to warm her hands first. The news was probably bad; those who wanted me to bless their fields waited until after breakfast.
“Derke! Cousin! Open the door!” The banging continued.
Ah, it was neither of those. My cousin, Sir Manegold Osias, had stopped while passing through the area. Though entitled to stay at the nearby castle of our liege lord, he preferred to stay at the rectory of our village priest. He and I were very close; our mothers were sisters. He, my wife, and I had talked long into the night.
Once I had a shirt and pants on, I tried to smooth my dark brown hair. Then I opened the door and slipped out. I wondered if Manegold ever took off his mail hauberk. Had he even slept? He already had his surcoat on, proudly displaying his family escutcheon—black on the right and blue on the left, a seated golden lion, and two small silver crosses in the top third. I looked up just a bit at him.
“What’s wrong, Manegold? Is someone ill?” Slightly my senior and recently knighted, his blue eyes peered at me from under his short-cropped, red-gold hair.
“No, look!”
Following his finger to the sky, I saw two birds silhouetted against the morning sun, one clearly chasing the other.
“You awakened me for ... birds?”
“Look again.”
As I squinted, the pursuing bird spat a stream of fire at its prey.
“A wyvern! A rare sight indeed!” I was fully awake now, staring at the wyvern and prey. “What is it chasing?” One did not see wyverns as often as a decade before. Even rarer were the large dragons.
“I don’t know,” he said, shading his eyes with one hand, “but both have riders.”
My back snapped erect. “Riders? Knights Adumbrar ride wyverns!” My cousin was a Knight Luminar, sworn enemies of the Adumbrar.
“So do some practitioners of black magic.” That was why he had awakened me!
As a Knight Luminar, he fought the Father’s enemies on earth. As a miracle man, I fought them spiritually. He and I rode together whenever we could. “Either way, we have a job to do. I’ll tell Kelestria.”
I slipped back inside as my wife awakened. Tall and broad shouldered, she came from a long line of farmers on her mother’s side. She yawned and stretched as she sat up, fluffing her dark hair. I thought her the most beautiful sight in the world. Smiling and fluttering her eyelashes, she motioned for me to come back to our bed. Sadly, I shook my head.
Her smile faded, her small mouth turning to a frown. “Dear, is something wrong?”
“Manegold spotted a wyvern chasing something in the sky. The wyvern and its prey both have riders.” I pulled on my white miracle man’s robe over my tunic and leggings.
She shivered even though the morning was unusually warm for the early fall. “You have to go. Do I have time to fix you a lunch?” In our year of marriage, she had quickly come to understand a miracle man’s duties. Wherever He called, we went, often at a moment’s notice. She rose from the bed, standing almost as tall as me. She grabbed her green dress from the floor and pulled it on over her nightclothes.
I shook my head. “No. We ride as soon as we can.”
“You must take something.”
“If you have it ready by the time we leave, I will.”
“Agreed.” We kissed goodbye.
The sun was much higher in the sky as our horses trotted along the road. My cousin and I watched the wyvern and its prey overhead. They were still too high in the sky for us to determine what the prey was. Manegold was attempting to figure out where it was going and race it there.
Kelestria’s travel rations jostled against the side of my horse. She had prepared enough for two days. Manegold always traveled with rations. My black mare traveled easily and lightly, nudging my cousin’s horse as it moved. Manegold’s war horse snorted indignantly and kept ahead.
The wyvern and prey were almost directly overhead; soon they would be ahead of us and we would never reach them. We pressed onward.
“The wyvern is catching up!” Manegold shouted.
I looked. The prey must be tiring. “It won’t miss next time it flames.”
Sure enough, the wyvern spit fire and flamed the prey. In just a few heartbeats, the falling prey and rider were close enough for me to make out that the flying creature was a griffin.
Those magnificent creatures with the head, forelegs, and wings of an eagle and the body of a lion had not been seen in this part of the world in over a century. The rider hung tightly as they plummeted toward the ground. They crashed through the trees not far from us.
I kept my eyes on the wyvern. “He’s descending also.”
“He probably wants to make sure they’re dead! Come on!” He spurred on his horse.
I dug my heels into my mare’s flanks and followed.
We galloped through the forest to the crash.
“They should be just ahead!” shouted Manegold.
We heard the griffin scream in defiance and a sword being drawn. Manegold spurred his horse again. No matter how hard I tried to keep up, they pulled further away.
The Father had smiled on us, because within moments we saw the four combatants. The wounded griffin had spread both wings and hissed and spat at the wyvern and black-mailed knight. The griffin’s saddle did not interfere with her fighting at all. (Tradition held that griffins, like dragons, were female until determined to be male.) Her rider, a slight, brown-robed and hooded figure, fought with a long-handled spear. Whoever he was, he showed skill with the spear, but the knight was better with the sword. The black knight pushed an advantage and opened up a wound in the rider’s side.
The Adumbrar wore a black mail hauberk with a black surcoat. I could only see his eyes between his coif and helmet. Unlike the Luminar showing their family escutcheons, all Adumbrar knights had a sable shield with a blue band across the middle and a red dragon’s head. They cared nothing for individuals only the glory of the group. No one knew who they were underneath the helmet and mail.
“Protect the woman, cousin,” Manegold said as he pulled a mail coif across his face. “I’ll take care of the knight.” He raised his sword in the knights’ customary manner.
“Woman?” I saw a curved waist as she pulled her robe tight trying to hold her side.
The Knight Adumbrar raised his sword before his covered face, accepting the challenge. The two knights stepped into combat range, each standing to present their shield to the other.
Drawing my sword, I ran to the woman and griffin. The griffin’s claws and beak slashed at the wyvern. Her wings were singed, but the griffin kept the fight so intense and close that the wyvern had no opportunity to breathe fire again. As the two animals rolled in another deadly embrace, I stepped back. It was foolish to get too close to them.
However, I was not limited to my sword in this fight. I crossed myself, invoking the Father, Son, and Spirit to my aid. “Father!” I cried. “Bless the griffin in her strikes.”
The griffin’s next slash caught the wyvern on the wing. The griffin flapped her wings in the wyvern’s face. I could see she was wounded in one wing, but she still held the advantage. I knew I couldn’t help in either fight. Manegold would want to fight one-on-one. I took a stance guarding the woman.
In the few seconds I had spent watching the beasts fight, Manegold and the black knight had tested one another. They struck and moved apart quickly, each trying to determine the extent of the other’s skill.
Manegold was talented and getting better but was often impatient. I prayed he would be patient today.
Off to the side, the wyvern screamed as the griffin sank her sharp beak into its neck. Blood flowing freely from the wound, the wyvern slumped, dying if not already dead.
Seeing his mount defeated, the black knight spoke for the first time. “The two of us will finish this.” The mail coif covering his mouth muffled his deep voice.
“Agreed,” Manegold said, striking again with his sword.
The black knight easily parried. “Every day I pray to our Father below that he send me an opponent worthy of my skill. Perhaps tomorrow he will grant that request.”
Even from here, I could see Manegold stiffen. The insult struck home. Angry now, he sprang forward as he slashed. The black knight easily stepped to the side and brought his sword handle down on Manegold’s neck. My cousin collapsed into the dirt.
The black knight reversed the grip on his sword and tried to stab downward. Manegold rolled quickly to the side, the blade burying itself into the soil for a hand’s breadth.
Manegold scurried away and sprang to his feet. Winded from the impact, he needed a moment.
The knight wrenched his sword free and advanced again. He would not give Manegold that moment.
Manegold parried the strike. He would make the Adumbrar earn the victory.
From behind me and low to the ground, a spear flashed past. Tangling in the legs of the black knight, it tripped him. Manegold’s opponent dropped his sword.
Moving like lightning, Manegold jumped forward and stood between the knight and his sword. The Adumbrar rolled away, came back to his feet, and ran into the trees.
As the knight fled, Manegold turned to the woman. His voice quivered with rage. “Why did you do that?”
“I saw a way to bring victory and took it.”
“You cheated. He and I were in a fair duel. It was not a battlefield melee.”
She continued, “When you fight for yourself, I’ll leave you alone. When you fight for me, I refuse to leave my goral completely in your hands.”
“Your what?” I asked, placing my hands on the wound and praying. Her jagged breathing grew stronger and the wound closed.
“The course of events HaShem has decreed I will follow even as I choose them myself.”
“Your destiny,” I said, helping her to her feet. The name she used for the Father marked her as one of the Ha’am Ha’eretz. “I am Derke, a miracle man. This is my cousin, Sir Manegold Osias, a Knight Luminar.”
“I see that armor frequently back home. But what does ‘miracle man’ mean?”
“I serve the Father, riding to battle with the knights to pray over them, and at other times I plea for the Father to do mighty deeds on the behalf of those who believe.”
“A navi! A prophet! Like Elijah and Isaiah.”
“Yes, a prophet. Though I would not place myself in their category.”
“If HaShem has called you like He called them, then you are in their category.” She dusted off her robes and pushed the hood back off her head. Brown hair and brown eyes sparkled amidst her dusky skin. “My name is Deborah, daughter of Mordechai.” She walked over to the griffin. “This is Chione.” She knelt to inspect the singed wing.
Manegold spoke, “Deborah is a very lovely name.”
Quizzically, I looked at my cousin. The tone of his voice had changed. He was no longer angry at her. In fact, a goofy smile spread across his face.
The blood drained from my cheeks. Manegold was smitten.
Most of the time, I would be glad for Manegold. He was slightly older than me and deserved the happiness of a good marriage. It was one of the Father’s greatest gifts.
However, he had told me last night that his father Frederick had selected a bride for him and arrangements were being made. Breaking the negotiations would be troublesome and could lead to a feud between the houses. The continent’s kingdoms had enough trouble already.
Well, this flirtation would go nowhere. I would pray for the griffin’s wing to be healed, Deborah and Chione would depart, Manegold would forget about her in short order, and all would be well. “Let me heal your griffin,” I said.
I took gentle hold of the wing where the flames had seared it and whispered a prayer of healing. The charred flesh turned healthy and pink. New feathers sprouted and grew to maturity in seconds.
From the other side, Manegold stroked the griffin’s wing. “Isn’t that better, Chione?”
“Ki!” the griffin squawked.
“That means ‘yes,’” Deborah said. “She does not speak your language.”
“Then how did she know what I asked?”
“She guessed from your tone. All griffins are smart, but Chione is the greatest of all.” She stroked her eagle head between the eyes. Chione chirped with pleasure. “Careful with her, though. Her wits are as sharp as her talons. She likes riddles.”
“Why was that Adumbrar chasing you?” Manegold asked, never one for idle chatter.
“We carry an urgent message that must go to one of your clerists. The message will be a great help to your war, or they would not want it so badly.”
The clerists were knights who had also been called to the priesthood. Besides fighting, they served as chaplains for the rest of the knights and led them in prayers, services, and vigils. The Grand Clerist sat on the high council of the Knights Luminar alongside the Grand Marshall and Grand Jurist. Manegold’s father, a jurist, specialized in law and lore.
“There are always clerists at our castles,” he said. “The closest one is two days from here by horse. In fact, the master and commander of that castle is a clerist.”
“It will be quicker when I ride Chione.” She adjusted the straps on Chione’s saddle. The saddle was unlike a horse’s. Deborah would hold the posts on the collar and place her feet in stirrups that ran along the back instead of down the mount’s sides. There was also a rider’s belt chained to the rest of the saddle.
Manegold shook his head. “You’ll have to stay with us. That Adumbrar almost killed you. He might bring reinforcements.”
She started to protest, but I interrupted. “The griffin is tired. We’ll have to stay here with you that long anyway.” I hated to take Manegold’s side right now because I wanted this woman on her way. “Or you could give the message to Manegold.”
The woman shook her head. “The message is encrypted. The clerist will know how break the encryption, but it must be delivered in person—yadh to yadh as we say.” She dug into her robes and produced a scroll.
Taking it from her, I tried to read it. “These letters make no sense.”
“No one can read it without the key.”
“Let’s get started, then,” Manegold said. “We can prepare at Derke’s village.”
I mounted my mare, Manegold got on his horse, and Deborah climbed into Chione’s saddle. Manegold signaled for me to lead the way. Behind me, I heard him chatting with Deborah as the great beast walked along with us.
Back in my village, I left the horse with Manegold and rushed to the cottage. “Kelestria!” I called. “Manegold and I have to escort a young woman named Deborah and her griffin to the clerists.” I rummaged for a pack in which to carry food.
Kelestria stopped weaving. “Tell me more.”
“She carries an urgent message, and Manegold is smitten!”
Her eyes widened. “Does she have a chaperon?”
Seeing an escape, I breathed a sigh of relief. “No. She came alone.” Propriety forbade a single woman from traveling alone with a single man. Traveling with two men was more scandalous, even though I was a married miracle man. Had I been a priest or monk, my vows of celibacy would allow me to count as a chaperon.
Kelestria rose from the loom and began helping me pack. “I’ll come with you.” More bread and dried meat went into the basket. She got the water skins from a trunk. “Do you expect more trouble?”
“The griffin killed the wyvern, but the Adumbrar escaped.”
“Griffins are rare. She’ll be spotted for sure.”
I nodded. “I haven’t come up with a solution for that problem. Manegold isn’t thinking clearly.”
“We could borrow a wagon and cover the griffin in the back. Then Deborah can ride with me on the wagon.”
I hugged my wife and kissed her. “Perfect.” We quickly finished packing. I collected my short bow and a quiver of arrows. We would hunt for food to make the packed rations stretch.
Outside, I introduced my wife to Deborah. Wanting to keep Chione secret, Deborah had left the magnificent beast hidden in the trees. Manegold went to ask Father Phaeus if we could borrow the church’s wagon and team of horses.
Father Phaeus suggested we pack the wagon around Chione with goods in case anyone lifted the covers.
We soon had everything ready to go. Outside the village, Deborah removed Chione’s saddle but left the collar. Chione settled into the wagon with her head near the front and chirped at Deborah.
Manegold and I rode on either side of the wagon. I took up the side next to Deborah, and he rode near Kelestria. When we stopped to water the horses, the women went upstream to refill the water skins. He spoke while the first two horses drank. The other two grazed.
“I know what you are doing, cousin.”
“What am I doing?” I tried to look innocent as I pulled the blankets from Chione so she could drink from the river.
“You mean to keep me from Deborah.” Chione’s head twitched a bit at her rider’s name as she stretched near the river.
“You are going to be engaged.”
“Not by choice.”
I shook my head. “What does choice matter? Discuss that with Uncle Frederick. Until he says otherwise, I count you as engaged.”
He turned his back on me. “Do you know why I envy you?”
“Envy me? We always wanted to be knights, and you are one.”
“It was your choice to end your training so soon,” he said dismissively.
“So soon! We spent seven years as pages before I withdrew!”
“And in one more month you would have been chosen as a knight’s squire.”
I shook my head. “That is why I withdrew when I did! I could not conscience the expense my master would undertake for a failed endeavor!”
The first horses finished their drinking, and we took the others.
Continuing, I said, “But you know that, Cousin. What really troubles you? It is not our different callings.”
“You were able to marry for love! By giving up your lands and title, you were able to choose your bride!”
I raised my hand to stop him. “That is not why I later renounced my inheritance.” I held out my arms covered in their white robes. “The Father called me to minister as a miracle man. He called you to be a Knight Luminar. Rejoice that He called us in accordance with our natural proclivities.”
Chione finished drinking and stretched out on the ground, her black eyes locked on us. Riding in the cramped wagon could not be very comfortable.
My next words were soft. “You would not enjoy being a monk or priest.”
He laughed without humor. “No, I like the thought of being married too much.” Still wearing his spurs, he carefully squatted next to Chione. He rubbed his hands through her furry flanks. The griffin chirped twice and stretched out further. “I think she likes that. But, cousin, would our Lord give us talents and inclinations one way and then call us to something else? It seems like such a waste.”
“We are like clay which He molds or metal He shapes. He knows which metal will serve best as a plowshare, which will serve as a stirrup, and which will serve as a sword. We have no right to say ‘Why did you make me so?’ Your destiny is to be a sword in His hand among the Luminar. Do not fight that nature.”
“He calls each of us to holiness, yet our nature is to sin.”
I stood agape for a moment. He had surprised me. My cousin did not speak of theology often, yet here he exhibited a quick insight. “We can break anything. Our nature was first to be holy and yearn for holiness. Our first parents chose to mar that.” After a breath, I continued, “The women will be back soon.”
He nodded. “Please don’t tell Deborah I am almost engaged. I fear that I will not love the woman my father selects.”
My heart broke for my cousin. The women’s approach removed any need for me to speak.
We traveled on. Kelestria asked me to ride next to her. That allowed Deborah and Manegold to speak.
“How did you come to bring the message?” he asked her.
I listened intently.
“An assassin wounded my eldest brother just before he mounted Chione. I grabbed the message, mounted, and we flew.”
“So an accident brought you here?”
Deborah shook her head, vigorously. “No accident. HaShem’s will is why I am here.” She smiled. “I imagine my father was livid, though. He is very protective.”
“As he should be,” Manegold said.
“Yes,” I said, “fathers always want what is best for their children, both sons and daughters.”
If looks were arrows, Manegold’s glare would have killed me. Kelestria punched me on the leg. I remained quiet after that. Chione’s chirping from the wagon sounded almost like laughter.
Deborah asked Manegold, “Did I cost you honor today?”
“Some. Out of ignorance. Had you known what interfering would mean, you would have cost me much more.”
“Honor is important to you? I’ve never heard the knights back home speak of it.”
“Honor is not something you speak of unless you have need. You live honor.” He sat straighter on his horse. “I have always been glad our Lord called me to serve as a Luminar.”
I saw Deborah nod. She looked at Manegold admiringly.
The sun was sinking when Deborah asked about a place to camp for the night.
“There is a monastery just over the next hill,” I said. “We can request shelter there.”
Minutes later we were welcomed in and given cells for the night. The black-robed Abbot Francis, a thin elderly man with only a wisp of hair for his tonsure, told us dinner would be served once the Lecto Divina concluded.
“Tell me, Abbot,” Manegold began, “an Adumbrar chased her. Will we be safe sleeping with no watch here?”
Francis nodded. “The monastery is blessed against violent harm. Even if a whole patrol of Adumbrar stormed in, they could not kill a single person within a mile of these walls.” He then handed us over to a lay brother for the time being. Brother Hector, who appeared to be about my age, told us we were welcome to wash from the road before dinner. We took our animals to the stable before doing anything else.
Inside the stable, Chione lifted her head and started thrashing her wings. She squawked loudly. “Hatsachanah gadol!”
“Hush, Chione, the smell isn’t any worse than a horse stable back home,” Deborah said. Then she whispered, “We don’t want to let everyone in the monastery know we have a griffin. I hear monks gossip like washer women.”
Chione shook her head. “Shema li!”
“She wants me to listen. Mah-na?”
“Lo ‘eyeda,” Chione continued to stare at Deborah.
“She says she doesn’t know. Kiyada’t, qera’at-li!” The woman turned to us. “I told her to call for me when she knows.”
She walked away from Chione, and we followed Brother Hector to the dining hall. This monastery was large with several hundred men, gardens, barns, kilns, chapels, a library, and a hospital for the nearby town. At dinner, they served dark bread, herbed cheese, and spiced sausage. The poor monks used herbs to increase the flavors.
As we ate, Kelestria nudged me. “You should say my breads are better.” A twinkle in her eye let me know she was joking.
I replied in kind. “Lying is a sin.”
Laughing, Kelestria elbowed me. Deborah and Manegold sat across from us, laughing with us.
“Do you eat bread like this back home?” Manegold asked her.
“We usually eat barley bread. Wheat and rye are for special occasions. During one of our feasts, we have a dry bread we call ‘the bread of suffering.’ It reminds us of how our people suffered in the past.”
“That sounds terrible.”
“The bitter herbs are worse.” As I watched, she would lean in close to Manegold but never too close. She laughed at all the right times and made eye contact with him often. She knew how to tug at a man’s heart!
Manegold and Deborah chatted throughout the meal. I ate, uneasily. She was a lovely woman and seemed interested in Manegold. If only Sir Frederick had chosen her! That was next to impossible. She was not from the continent or a knightly family. Frederick’s choice—whoever she was—would be wealthy and well-connected politically.
I decided to remind Manegold of his place. “Manegold, when did you say your father expects you?”
“In a week,” he said, staring at me, “unless an urgent mission arises.”
“Isn’t there important news for you when you get back?”
“Oh,” said Deborah. “I hope it is good news.”
With a simmering look, Manegold rose from the table and left in the direction of our cell. Kelestria poked her knife handle hard into my side.
Manegold and I sat in our guest cell, a small room with two straw mattresses on the dirt floor. He had said nothing to me since dinner.
“I’m sorry, Manegold,” I said. “I have intruded where I need not go.”
He looked up at me, still silent as a tree.
“I will say nothing more about Deborah. May the Lord bless you, if He wills you to be together.” In my heart, I still believed Manegold should do as his father bid, but I had made my case. Manegold would choose his path now.
My cousin relaxed. “Thank you. I know you were thinking of me. I have never met a woman like her.”
“She is letting you know she is willing to be pursued. Kelestria explained part of how women work. The layers of intrigue and hints they work within are enough to drive a man mad.”
“I prefer the man’s way of simply and openly pursuing.”
“As do I, but women are not men and never will be. Praise the Father for that! Remember also, you cannot pursue unless she wants to be pursued. Let us retire. Monks always rise early in the morning.” My bow and quiver stood in the corner where I left them before dinner.
He shook his head. “I intend to spend the night at vigil in the prayer chapel for our mission.”
“Is that why you haven’t taken off your sword?”
He paced. “No. Every time I try to take it off, I feel as though I should not.”
I raised an eyebrow, but a sudden knock at our door prevented me from saying anything else. I opened it to see Kelestria fretting in the hallway.
“Deborah has not returned from checking on Chione after dinner.”
Grabbing his helmet, Manegold hurried down the hall. We followed.
In the stable, we found Chione asleep with no sign of Deborah. The griffin did not rouse easily.
“Where is Deborah?” Manegold asked once he awakened the beast.
Squawking loudly, she clawed at the door to her stable. “Laqach et-Deborah!” She repeated her screams.
“None of us speak Hedaic,” I said, exasperated.
“But I do,” said the abbot huffing and puffing as he came up behind us. Brother Hector stood behind him. “I followed when I saw you running.”
“We are grateful. Can you speak to Chione?”
“Certainly. One moment.” He turned to the lay brother. “Get the relic from the chapel; you know which one.”
The young man nodded and hurried away.
The abbot demonstrated great courage by reaching over the stall door and stroking an agitated griffin’s head. “Mah-zeh tir’iy?” I guessed he was asking her what she saw.
Chione calmed slightly, hearing words in her own language. “Habasar hunamani! Wallaqach nazir et-Deborah!”
“The meat made her sleep, and a monk took Deborah.” Looking confused, he repeated part of what Chione had said, “Nazir?”
“Wayyarach k’tzel.”
The abbot shook his head. “She says that the monk smelled like a shadow. That’s nonsense.”
Manegold grabbed the old man’s shoulders. “Adumbrar means shadow! One of your monks is an Adumbrar Knight.”
The abbot’s eyes widened. “Not possible! The Father would surely tell us. All the monks were blessed and prayed over. The Spirit would tell us of a traitor.”
I added, “I do not know why the Father allows many of the things He does. I know we do His work wherever we are and even those who oppose Him serve Him.”
The abbot nodded, clearly still upset. “I will have to inspect all the monks immediately. To think! I heard this monk’s confession!”
“Perhaps the knight snuck in tonight disguised,” Kelestria added.
The abbot relaxed. “Yes, that is more likely.”
Just then, Brother Hector returned with a wooden box that would fit within both hands. The abbot crossed himself and took it. “St. Jerome is the patron saint of translators. Inside this box is his finger bone which will allow us to communicate with Chione.”
I reverently took the box and asked, “Can you understand me, Chione?”
“Yes. Now let us hurry. The trail grows colder as we speak!”
Manegold put on his helmet. “This Adumbrar will not survive to see the morning, so I swear.”
Kelestria grabbed my sleeve. “I will stay here. You’ll travel faster without me.”
“No horses,” Chione said. “The men will ride me.”
I picked up her saddle.
“No time. Just use the collar. It is later than you think.”
We hurried outside. Manegold stretched out on Chione’s back, holding onto one post with both hands. I kissed Kelestria quickly before climbing onto the other side. I closed my eyes and prayed. The relic box hung about my neck by a thin rope.
“They went this way! He has a horse!” Chione shrieked and leaped into the night air. The ground fell away underneath us, and air rushed past our faces. She flew just above the tree tops. Thankful that I had eaten lightly at dinner, I clenched my jaws.
“Have you ever been in the air before, cousin?” he asked.
“No. Have you?” I answered as my stomach flopped.
“Only by dragon back. Required as part of the training.”
“Yet another reason I’m glad I was called differently.” I gripped tighter as Chione turned. “Oh, dear!” I didn’t ask her to slow down. We needed to find Deborah even if I lost my supper.
As I choked, Chione said, “I see them!” A final burst of speed placed us in front of the knight on horseback. I released the riding post and rolled to the ground. I heard Manegold’s mail clinking as he did the same.
Chione stretched to her full height, wings expanded. She screamed at the black-armored knight who had taken her friend.
His horse pawing the ground, the knight flung Deborah to the forest floor. She looked bruised and battered; obviously, she had not been taken easily. Hands tied behind her back, she scurried away from the knight and horse.
The knight drew his sword and charged at us.
We scattered. I ran to the left, thinking we could close on him in a pincer. Manegold ran to the right. Having fought together often, Manegold and I needed no words to form a battle plan.
I clutched the wooden cross around my neck and prayed for all of us to have valor and protection. Then I prayed offensively. The skies clouded and lightning jumped from cloud to cloud, giving us more light. A clap of thunder rocked the forest, but the knight remained seated on his horse. Lightning from the cloudless sky struck a tree on the edge of the combat circle, causing the tree to catch fire.
The Adumbrar shouted out prayers of his own in some infernal tongue. Flames played along his sword, and he swung at Chione. He missed, but Chione’s clawed strike was thrown off by her dodge.
I saw Manegold edging around to defend Deborah. Chivalrous to a fault, he would protect her, but if she were not here, he would press against the black knight harder.
Regretting leaving my bow at the monastery, I ran to Deborah and cut the ropes around her wrist with the small knife I wore. She wore no weapon. “Get away!”
Wordlessly, she retreated towards the trees.
The Adumbrar spoke, his voice deep, “Three against one. So much for the Luminar’s vaunted fairness.”
“You had a chance to fight just me, but you ran. If you wanted a rematch, you should not have kidnapped Deborah.”
“The monastery is blessed against violence on its grounds!” He spoke again in that same infernal language and threw something to the ground.
The item twisted and grew until it was four feet high at the shoulder. It stood on four legs that were the same coal black as its body. Bright red eyes glowed in front of horns and ears. Flames came a short way from its mouth when it barked. A devil dog!
The devil dog bounded toward Chione and growled. The knight said, “My hound shall face your griffin and miracle man while you and I finish our duel.” He challenged Manegold with his flaming weapon. “But first, I must dismount. We shall fight blade-to-blade, lest any claim my horse gave advantage after I slay you.” The black knight dismounted from his horse and repeated the challenge gesture.
Manegold raised his sword in acceptance. The combatants circled one another.
The devil dog spit fire at Chione. She jumped into the air and landed on the other side of the dog. He bounded at me and knocked me to the ground. I rolled where I landed and came up still holding my knife. He came at me again, and I dodged to the side, stabbing into his thick skin as he passed by.
I looked quickly for Chione and saw her making short work of the knight’s stallion.
The devil dog made no sound after I stabbed him. He kept running and took my knife with him! Now weaponless, I expected him to press his attack. I was not disappointed. He spun and jumped. I shouted at the top of my lungs for the Father to grant me victory.
He did. In the form of Chione. The griffin descended on the devil dog from the sky and sank all four sets of claws into the hound. It yelped.
Seeing Chione had matters well in hand and knowing better than to jump into a fight like that, I looked back to Manegold.
The two knights had paused for a quick breath from their fight. Blood ran down Manegold’s shield arm, but the black knight now limped.
Behind me, I heard Chione squawk in victory. Deborah came out of the forest carrying a lit branch. She stood next to me, and we watched the knights.
“Aren’t you going to interfere?” I asked.
She shook her head. “He must win on his own.”
The knights struck and parried for another minute.
“Did you follow us and sneak in?” Manegold asked the knight when they paused for breath.
“No. Divination showed me you would be at the monastery. Join us, and you can try it.”
“Never! I care not what chicken bones say I will do!”
“Fear them, though. They said I would win this combat!”
With a lunge, the combat resumed. For a brief moment, the Adumbrar had the upper hand, then Manegold dipped his sword low and cut heavily into his opponent’s thigh. The Adumbrar fell to his knees.
“Do you yield?” Manegold asked, his sword leveled at the knight’s eyes.
“Never,” the Adumbrar answered, trying one last time to swing his sword.
Manegold thrust his sword forward, ending the black knight’s life. The enemy’s body fell to the ground with the clink of chain mail and a thud.
I relaxed as the battle rush drained away. Then I hurried to Manegold’s side and eased him to the ground as his strength faded. My prayers for his healing began immediately. His lips moved in quiet praise to the Father for granting victory.
Deborah knelt on his other side and took his hand. “I saw you fight, Manegold. You were magnificent!”
“For you,” he said. His wounds closed as I prayed. Soon, he rose from the ground and removed the coif from his face. “Thank you for not interfering in our duel.”
She ducked her head. “Doing so again would cost you honor, and a life without honor is worse than an honorable death for you.”
I gaped at her. “You would have let the knight kill us all so Manegold could keep his honor?”
She laughed. “Oh, no. If he had killed Manegold, I would have let Chione have the knight. She’s hungry, and horse flesh disagrees with her.”
Chione ripped a chunk of flesh from the devil dog. “This needs salt.”
We all laughed. Chione chirped and rubbed against my leg. I reached down and stroked the feathers between her eyes.
We returned to the monastery. Deborah and Manegold talked the whole way. I tried not to listen but still overheard some of their talk.
“I feared when the knight took you.”
She laughed. “Not as much as I feared for myself and my mission.”
“What would I have told your father? The letter would be my responsibility.”
“That I died for the mission. He would understand that HaShem willed it.”
I retreated into my prayers. Holding Chione’s riding post, I didn’t worry about wandering off the road. Less than an hour later, we were back at the monastery. Kelestria came running out and threw her arms around me. The abbot followed.
“I was so worried,” Kelestria said. “I’ll never get used to you being gone.”
“Now that I have you, I worry more for myself, too,” I whispered. “But I’m happy.”
“I wish we could stay in the same cell tonight,” she said. “I want you within reach.”
I smiled. “The monastery wouldn’t allow it. Besides, I have something to tell Manegold.”
My wife raised an eyebrow. “Oh?”
Nodding, I said, “I want him to have the same happiness we do. Deborah might be his best chance. At the very least, he is not fighting against her.”
She hugged me tighter.
Abbot Francis fretted. “I have asked all the monks. No one came in after you did. How did the Adumbrar get in?”
Manegold replied, “He walked in disguised before we arrived. He told me that he used a divination to know where we were going.”
The abbot crossed himself. “Fortune telling! The work of the Devil!”
Abbot Francis and Brother Hector saw us off the next morning. Carved above the monastery gate were the words “Crux Sacra Sit Mihi Lux. Non Draco Sit Mihi Dux.”
Manegold stared at the words. “What does that mean?” he asked. “Something about the holy cross and a dragon.”
“Let the holy cross be my light. Never let the dragon be my guide,” Abbot Francis said. “Our founder, St. Benedict, used to pray that repeatedly. We pray it as well. He also taught, ‘Walk in God’s ways with the Gospel as our guide.’”
I held out the relic box to Brother Hector.
Brother Hector said, “Take the relic with you and return it when you come back.”
After leaving the monastery, Manegold and Deborah talked all day. The two certainly enjoyed one another’s company. The Father would bring His will without my interference.
We reached the knights’ castle in the late afternoon. As we came over a hill, two mailed knights rode out to greet us.
“Sir Manegold Osias,” the lead one said. “Welcome. We did not expect you.” Every knight alive knew the symbols on Manegold’s shield and surcoat. He was, after all, a direct descendant of one of the Luminars’ founders and still used the same arms.
“The visit was not planned,” he replied. “This woman bears an urgent message for a clerist.”
The second knight saluted, turned, and spurred his horse back to the castle.
Once inside the courtyard, we were escorted to the large receiving room. Chione could walk comfortably through the spacious corridors. An old knight stood in front of a desk with younger knights standing guard. Deborah handed the message to the master and commander. The large cross beneath the escutcheon on his surcoat showed him to be a clerist.
“Sir Thurgood,” Manegold said, identifying him by the coat of arms—a silver field with a red cross and three golden eagles.
Sir Thurgood examined the scroll. “This code requires a key phrase to be decrypted. Were you given the key?”
“I have it,” Chione said before Deborah could answer. Looking at the master and commander, she said:
Two princes are key
The first of water and stone
Head of 70, giver of 10
The second of fire and air
Stood against 400, fled before 1
On their mountain, see the kingdom
“What!” Manegold exclaimed. “The key can’t be that long.”
“No,” Deborah said. “It’s another of Chione’s riddles.” She turned to the beast. “Can’t you just tell us?”
Chione preened. “One cannot deny their nature or their destiny. Riddles are my nature; this one was my destiny.” She dipped her head like a bow.
Muttering, we began debating the possibilities. We were fairly certain that the answer would be religious in nature, perhaps two names. Though in a riddle, the princes might not be people. Almost certainly they would not be royalty. After an hour of thinking and arguing, Deborah said, “Moses and Elijah, one the giver of the law, the other the prince of prophets.”
As soon as she said it, I slapped my forehead. “Elijah stood firm against the 400 prophets of Ba’al yet ran from Jezebel.”
“Moses had 70 elders and gave us the 10 Commandments,” Deborah said.
“Moses is water and stone. That must be the Red Sea and the rock he struck,” Kelestria said.
“And Elijah called down fire and ascended in a chariot.”
Sir Thurgood called for pen and paper. He began working on the code. After a quarter hour, he shook his head. “This can’t be correct, Chione. Are you sure we solved the riddle correctly?” He showed the parchment to her.
Chione nodded and sat down. Her shoulders moved like a shrug. “They’d have no trouble reading it in Sheshak and Lev-Qamay.”
Thurgood stared at Chione. “Sheshak and Lev-Qamay? There’s an Atbash ciphering as well!” He set to work again, feverishly.
“Twice encrypted?” I asked Chione.
“Even if I was captured and tortured to give the riddle, they still wouldn’t be able to read the message. Once they had solved the first, they would likely kill me, thinking I had lied to them,” she said without emotion.
“Where are Sheshak and Lev-Qamay?” Manegold asked Deborah.
“There is a famous cipher in our land called the Atbash—apparently Sir Thurgood knows it as well. Sheshak and Lev-Qamay are Babel and Chashdim ciphered.”
“Praise Heaven!” Sir Thurgood shouted. He looked at Deborah, shock registering on his face as he read it. “This can’t be! Do you know what this says?”
“No,” Deborah and Chione replied together.
“It is a list of traitors and spies within the nobility! These men have been seeking to undermine the war effort.”
Still blinking rapidly, he turned to Deborah. “Young woman,” he said, “how did your brother get this list?”
“My father and brother are Ish Sicarioth.” She said this unflinchingly. It must have been a proper name as the relic did not translate the term for us.
The clerist nodded. “I thought only the dagger-men would obtain such a list.”
I turned to Manegold. “Do you know what she means?”
“Her brother and father are accomplished spies and assassins. They are part of an unsanctioned army called the Qa’ana that protects her kingdom from any perceived threats.”
Deborah simply said, “They are right about the threats more often than not.”
“Are you sure the list is accurate?” I asked the clerist, trying to move the topic back to the urgent business.
Sir Thurgood nodded. “I have long suspected several of these men of having divided loyalties. We will investigate carefully but swiftly. Carefully that only the guilty are punished. Swiftly that they cannot get away. They may already be moving into hiding if the Black Star and Adumbrar suspected what you carried.” He said the last to Deborah. “You should stay here at the castle for a while at least.”
“Happily,” she said, smiling and glancing at Manegold.
Deborah stayed a month while the knights investigated and captured the traitors. Only when the Luminar announced they had all of them from the list did she prepare to return home.
She and Manegold were often together, but the day of her departure, I saw she was distraught as the four of us walked together towards Chione who was already saddled. The mighty griffin herself looked sad.
“Manegold,” she said, “I have to tell you something.” She came to a halt and turned to face him.
“Of course,” he replied.
“When I go back, I am to be betrothed.”
Manegold staggered. “Betrothed?” Kelestria grabbed my hand in shock.
“Yes. It has been planned for months but will become official then. In a few months, he and I will stand beneath the marriage canopy woven from the branches of trees our parents planted at our births.”
“Who....”
“His name is Reuben.”
“Is he worthy of you?” I detected anger in Manegold’s voice.
“He is from the northern part of my kingdom. I have never met him. We have exchanged a few letters, nothing more. He strikes me as one who follows HaShem with all his heart.”
“Can you refuse the engagement?”
She shook her head vigorously. “No. I thought I could. I have wanted to ever since I met you, but I cannot.” She looked at my cousin, a tear from each eye on her brown cheeks. “You are a good man, Sir Manegold Osias, better than most. Yet you are not part of my goral. I prayed for the other answer every time I raised my eyes to Heaven, but HaShem has repeatedly told me otherwise. I cannot choose against Him.”
Kelestria and I stood in silent horror. Manegold remained standing tall and strong.
“But you do not love ... Reuben.”
She shook her head sadly this time. “Not yet. Remember this: the will is stronger than the heart. If I determine to love him, I will love him.”
Kelestria wrapped my hand tightly in hers as we listened. She sank her head into my shoulder.
Manegold squeezed Deborah’s hand. “Do you love me?”
Tears running down her face, Deborah refused to look away. “Do not press for an answer. No matter what I say, you will be hurt. Let me go to my family and people. Stay here and find happiness in a bride. Surely your father searches for one even now.”
Manegold winced. “He has found one.”
Deborah tried to smile. “Then it will all work out. What is her name?”
“I have never seen her or even been told her name.”
“But I know your father would only arrange marriage with a righteous woman. Just as mine would not engage me to a hardhearted man. Fathers want the best for their children.”
Manegold’s voice took on a hint of desperation. “At least give me a token.”
She shook her head vigorously. “The only token you need is from your bride-to-be. HaShem tells us that marriage joins two houses. Ours would destroy at least twice that many. Embrace His will. Do not try to leave your destiny.”
Manegold released her hands and stepped back. “Then go.” His steely face showed no more emotion than the sword at his side.
Deborah mounted Chione and waved good-bye to me and Kelestria. Chione looked down at Manegold and said, “You will find HaShem’s will by doing what the monks do.”
Manegold stiffened. “I was called to be a married knight not a celibate monk!” He turned and strode away.
Kelestria and I said our goodbyes to Deborah and her mount. “I hope you find happiness, Deborah,” Kelestria said.
“I will. It’s like love. If you determine to find it, you will.”
The three of us walked back to the castle slowly in silence. Finally, he broke the silence as we walked through the portcullis.
“And that’s the end,” my cousin simply said.
“When will your father tell you her name?” Kelestria asked.
“I received a message from him just before Deborah and Chione left.” He held out a letter, folded and sealed with his father’s signet in hardened wax. He sighed and popped open the paper. “Her name is Suzanna, daughter of Sir Gregory, the Earl of Stisa.”
“Stisa lies in the mountains of Fremora. That’s a long way from your home,” I said.
He nodded and strode away. “Come with me to the library. We can find her family’s records of knighthood.”
Once inside, he didn’t look at the towering shelves of books and scrolls. Instead, he went right for the book he wanted and turned the pages. “Ah, Gregory of Stisa.” As he read, he couldn’t keep the admiration from his voice. “They have been knights almost as long as my family. Gregory the First, grandfather of my future father-in-law, led one of the successful campaigns to expel invaders from Fremora. For that service, he was awarded the earldom.”
I nodded in appreciation. “Uncle Frederick chose well.”
Kelestria gasped. “Better than you think! Look here!” She tapped the painting of a shield on the facing page.
Manegold shrugged. “A golden cross on a blue field with three golden suns in splendor on a red stripe in the top.”
“And their motto,” she continued.
Manegold’s read from below the shield. “Crux Sacra Sit Mihi Lux. Non Draco Sit Mihi Dux. We read that at the monastery!”
“Don’t you see?” Kelestria pressed on. “Chione said you would find the Father’s will when you do what the monks do!”
Manegold blinked and caught his breath. He whispered, “Let the Holy Cross be my light; never let the Dragon be my guide.”

The Kappa

Once, there was a little girl who had an excellent brain. Her brain was so good, that little Hanako could tell her brain to tell her body to jump or run or eat cookies, and that’s just what her body would do!
The favorite thing Hanako could do was stand on one foot, draw up her other leg and arms, and bend over. As she balanced, Hanako pretended she was a white egret looking for tiny fishes and frogs to eat. She could stand like that for a long time. That’s how good her brain and body were.
But there was one thing Hanako’s brain was not very good at. It could not pay attention to words like “no” and “don’t.” So when Mama said things like, “Don’t eat these sweet rice balls before supper,” Hanako ate every single rice ball. She did not even leave one for her mother.
Hanako and her mama lived in a small village surrounded by pine trees on a mountain in Japan. A small river rushed over stones by their house. Where the river widened into a swampy place, white egrets probed the mud for frogs and salamanders or stood on one foot and slept. The water’s happy laughter and the egrets’ beauty called to Hanako every day. Her mama could not keep her home no matter how many times she said, “Don’t go to the river. An evil spirit might steal you.” There were small, mottled crabs to find under rocks, fingerling fish swimming hard against the current to watch, and cool breezes to tease Hanako’s black hair.
One day, after a refreshing rain had washed the forest, Hanako strolled through the pine trees, headed toward the river. A tiny mew caught her attention. She left the path to poke through azaleas and ferns. The trees and azaleas sprinkled her with water.
Under the fifth fern, she found a tiny black bobtail kitten. Its blue eyes shone in the shade. Its fur stuck out in little wet spikes as it wobbled toward her and mewed again. The poor, thin kitten was wet and shivering. Hanako picked him up and cuddled him in her arms. Cold water soaked her sleeves. She ran back to her house.
Her mama scolded, “You’re all wet. Did you fall in the river? I keep telling you it is too dangerous for you to go to the river alone. Don’t go where I can’t rescue you from evil spirits.”
“Mama, look. I rescued a kitten who was all alone in the forest.”
“Oh!” Mama said. “The poor little kitten. Let me get towels for both of you.”
Once they were dry, Hanako tried to feed the kitten with milk from a spoon. She and the kitten got wet with milk, so Mama dried them off again.
Then all three of them rode a bus to a city with a pet store. They purchased a red collar with a golden bell, kitten milk, and a doll bottle to feed the starving kitten.
The store clerk said, “That is a handsome kitten.”
Hanako said, “His name is Maneki!”
Her mama stroked the soft kitten. “You must be kind to the kitten so you will have good luck.”
Hanako did not need the promise of good luck to be kind to Maneki. She knew that all kittens deserve to be treated kindly.
On the ride back home, Hanako rubbed her cheek against the most beautiful cat in the world.
Every day, Hanako stayed home to care for the kitten. She fed Maneki bits of solid food with chopsticks and pretended she could not see the lump he made when he hid under her blanket.
Maneki grew and grew. He played with Hanako and with every fly that flew into their home. He ate the flies, but he did not eat Hanako. Maneki followed her everywhere, except outside their home. Maybe he was afraid he would become wet and hungry if he went outside. Hanako had to carry Maneki if she wanted him with her outside, but he grew into a heavy cat.
One day, Hanako opened the front door, revealing a sweet day where the sun and clouds played tag, the river laughed loudly, and a gentle breeze cavorted through the pines. She stepped out and sat down to put on her shoes.
Maneki mewed and pulled on her sleeve.
“Stop that,” Hanako said.
Mama called, “Where are you going, Hanako-chan?”
The cat still pulled on her sleeve. Hanako said, “Mama, I am going to the river to catch crabs and watch the egrets.”
“Stay inside and play with Maneki,” Mama said. “The river is a dangerous place for little girls.”
“I will be safe.” Hanako gently removed Maneki’s claws from her sleeve.
He mewed and butted his head against her hand.
“You are too heavy to carry all the way to the river.” Hanako gently shoved his head back inside, got up, and slid the door shut. Hearing the cat’s pitiful cry, Hanako said, “I won’t be gone long. Don’t cry.” She considered taking him, but again concluded he was too heavy.
Hanako ran through the bamboo grove and the pines to the river’s rocky shore. She turned over stones, found crabs, and tossed them into the river.
An egret slowly stepped over on stilt legs to see what she was throwing into the water. Would it be something good to eat? Oh, yes, crabs are very good to eat. “Kuk-kuk-kuk,” the egret said. The bird stepped closer.
Suddenly it flapped its great wings and flew away. One white feather spiraled down from the sky.
What had frightened the egret? Hanako watched the bird shrink smaller and smaller as it flew farther and farther away. She dropped the last crab she had caught hiding between two boulders.
A shadow slid along the nearest boulder.
Hanako spun and stared at the creature with a beak and shaggy black hair on its head. The hair hung like a hula skirt around the top of the head where a shallow dip, like a bowl, held muddy water. A tadpole wriggled in the water. A bumpy turtle shell covered the animal’s back. Its two muddy-green legs had webbed toes. Its two arms had webbed fingers. The thing stunk like rotting weeds.
Hanako backed against the boulder, knowing that this thing standing as tall as her was dangerous. “What—what are you?” she stammered.
The thing cackled. “What I am is not important. What is important is what you are. You are a little girl. You are delicious.”
“No!” Hanako picked up a stone and threw it at the thing. The projectile bounced off its hard belly.
The thing grabbed her arm. As strong as a hundred grown-ups, it jerked her toward the river.
“No! Don’t drown me!” She kicked its knee.
The thing snarled. “Yes. You will be the most delicious girl I have ever eaten.”
A black cat smashed into the thing. “Mine!” he hissed.
The thing let go of Hanako. “Oh! Maneki! I did not know. Oh! She is yours.”
“Mine, Kappa. Don’t touch what is mine.” Maneki growled. He rose on his hind legs, balanced, and bowed toward the thing. Then, he sat back on his haunches.
“Oh, no!” The kappa wrung his hands. “No. Please.”
The cat stared at him with shining eyes.
“Oh! Oh!” cried the kappa.
When someone bows to you, you must bow back, even if you were going to eat that someone.
The kappa turned his eyes to Hanako who bowed to the creature even deeper than the cat. “Oh!” The kappa bowed and the water sloshed out of the dip on his head. The tadpole wriggled down between the rocks. Gray, wrinkled stuff lay at the bottom of the dip. “Oh!” The kappa staggered and fell. His arms and legs flopped. He looked weaker than a kitten.
Maneki hunkered down like he was going to pounce. “If you don’t go back to the river, your brain will dry out and you will die. Do you want to die, kappa?”
The kappa groveled. “No. Oh, no. Please let me go back to the river.”
Maneki batted him on the beak once. “Go, and never touch my Hanako again or I will eat you!”
“Oh! Oh! Oh! Thank you, Maneki-san. Oh!” The kappa crawled into the river and sank into its depths.
Hanako dropped to her knees and hugged her beautiful cat. “Maneki-neko, how did you get here?”
“Your mother opened a window. Now she is crying because she is afraid to tell you she has lost me.”
Hanako rubbed her cheek on his head. “It will be wonderful when Mama hears you can talk.”
“No, I can’t.” The cat raised one paw and held it next to his ear. He mewed.
Hanako laughed and rose with Maneki in her arms. “You will never again be too heavy for me to carry.” She kissed him and he purred.
As she carried her cat all the way home, her brain decided that perhaps the words “no” and “don’t” might occasionally be worth heeding.

Celebration

The city of Harath had become a place of shrouds. Black curtains hung in every window and black flags flew from every tower. There was no sound of music or merriment. Despite the late hour, there should have been revelers. Harath was known for producing the finest wines on Other Place, a fact the elves disputed every chance they got, miserable backstabbers that they were. No one cared about elf lies, and for good reason, as countless bottles of quality wine flowed from wineries established thousands of years ago. The residents of Harath were joyous and celebrated life, but not today.
Midnight came and went. Clouds blotted out the moon and stars as if they shared the city’s mood. Few fires burned and no lanterns were lit. This meant no one noticed short figures clothed in black garments sneaking through the city streets. The stunted and smelly beings stood between two and four feet tall, and they left not an inch of skin uncovered. Awkward as their appearance might be, they were as silent as falling snow as they moved through the cobblestone streets.
The furtive people were careful in case they might run into dogs, burglars, or various scary beings of the night. That last category was less worrying than it sounded since the scary beings unionized last year. Still, there was a chance, however small, that they would be noticed. That wouldn’t do. The smelly crowd used every trick they knew to avoid making the slightest sound. They kept to the back alleys and less traveled roads on their way to the castle.
Castle Sea Crest was a real castle, one of those fine old castles that remembered they were built for war and not just huge mansions. The walls were yards thick, the bricks made of granite, and the towers soared high above the prosperous city. There hadn’t been a serious threat in generations, but the royal family kept Castle Sea Crest in good repair. After all, you never knew what the future held.
The black-clad figures stopped near the edge of the castle. Guards patrolled the outer walls every fifteen minutes, and even in such a time of woe they kept a strict schedule. Timing would be tricky.
Guards armed with spears and torches came near. The crowd edged back into the shadows and waited for them to pass. Instead the guards stopped, and one took a silver flask from his pocket. He took a sip and offered it to another guard. The man waved it off.
“These last few days food and drink taste like ashes in my mouth.”
The first guard put the flask back and looked down. “Dark times, indeed.”
“I fear worse ones are to come,” the second guard said. He shuddered and looked at the castle before leading the other men away.
Once they were gone the crowd returned. They were silent as cats, in part because they’d gagged themselves before beginning this mission. Fifteen minutes more until the guards returned.
A window high up on the castle opened. The crowd below tensed, relaxing only when they saw more short figures in black wave to them. The group in the window lifted a large leather bag six feet long and two feet across. They slid it out the window and lowered it with ropes to the ground below. The waiting crowd took the large bag and carried it into the shadows.
One by one the figures above climbed to the ground using the same ropes they’d lowered the bag with. The last person threw the ropes down. Below him the crowd hung a rope net between the castle wall and a nearby house. One leap sent him fifty feet down where the net caught him. They gathered up the net and ropes before fleeing into the night.
They’d only gone a block when alarm bells rang from the castle. Piercing lights shone in windows, and the drawbridge came down with a thud to release dozens of knights on horseback. They raced through the city streets, screaming at the top of their lungs the whole time.
“To arms! To arms! Wake the citizenry and seal the city! The King’s body has been stolen!”
One of the black-clad figures pulled off his gag. “So much for the mannequin.”
“I really thought that would fool them until morning,” another replied. “Maybe it shouldn’t have been smiling.”
“Hurry,” a third whispered.
Harath’s slumber ended as doors and windows flew open. Men and women ran outside to see what the noise was about. This slowed the knights from reaching the alleys where the black clad figures scurried with their heavy load. The delay wouldn’t last long, and the black-clad crowd broke into a run.
They reached the city’s outer wall and ducked into a small building. More people in black waited for them and opened a secret door hidden in the floor. All of the short figures went inside with the large bag and their belongings. From there, they went through sewers and tunnels until they reached another door a mile from the city. They peeked outside in case the knights had already gotten this far, but the noise and light was still far off.
It took them the rest of the night to get through the vineyards and fields around the city to reach the safety of home. Home was a network of caves well away from farmland and human habitation. The rocky ground supported neither grapes nor wheat, so it lay empty.
Empty places are where goblins live.
Back in the safety of their cave, the goblins pulled off their disguises. Black cloaks and pants were replaced with regular leather and cotton clothes, and black soot was washed off from around their eyes. They set down the bag they’d brought so far and cheered as still more goblins poured into the cave. Their numbers grew until hundreds of goblins crowded around the bag. The air rippled as the collective craziness and stupidity of so many goblins close together began to warp space.
“You did it!” a goblin with a crooked staff cheered. He had green skin and blue hair, and wore heavy robes made from an old carpet.
“You doubted us, Estive?” one of the returning goblins teased. Now out of his disguise, he had pale skin and small eyes. Unruly brown hair covered his shoulders in greasy locks that stained his leather clothes.
“Doubt you? Brat, you and Oler broke into a castle in the capital city of a kingdom, and on a day when the humans are riled up like wasps when you hit their nest. You’re lucky you’re still breathing.”
“Hmm,” Oler muttered. Oler was hulking by goblin standards, with dense muscles and strong arms and legs. His leather clothes didn’t quite fit, and his fair skin and brown hair were always dirty.
“Show us, show us!” goblins shouted.
Brat and Oler untied the bag and carefully took out King Justin Lawgiver, a sight to behold even now. His skin was wrinkled and his hair white, but there was a strength to him, a look of nobility. His clothes were fine linens dyed deep blue, with a sable cape and fur-lined boots. He still wore his signet ring and jeweled crown. The King smelled of lavender from the perfumed oils he’d been anointed with.
“Speech!” the goblins yelled. “Speech!”
Brat smiled and said, “We snuck in by—”
A goblin waved his arms. “Not you. Justin!”
Estive rolled his eyes and pushed his way to the front of the group. “None of that! You get things ready, and do a good job! It’s not often we have a guest.”
The goblins hurried off, one saying, “Wouldn’t want to look bad in front of the King.”
It took two hours of hard work, something few goblins bothered with even for a minute, but they made the cave presentable. Colorful streamers dyed with berry juice hung from the cave walls. Tables and chairs of dubious quality were brought out and dusted off. A large table was brought out for Justin Lawgiver to rest on since he was the guest of honor. Goblin cooks who’d been abducted and dragged here against their will were politely asked to prepare a banquet.
Musicians played horns and fiddles as goblins piled their plates high with heaping helpings of food. There was some concern that they’d offend Justin since goblins eat what humans couldn’t stand the sight of. The fear proved baseless as the King was being a good sport about the matter. That wasn’t surprising given that he was dead, but he’d been a good one even when he was alive. One goblin set a plate of food beside the King on the off chance he’d feel better and ask for a snack.
The celebration was in full swing with raucous music, copious food, and much laughter. It went on for hours and even the goblin cooks joined in. Once the music and gorging was done, the goblins gathered around Justin Lawgiver’s body. They fell silent, but their expressions were not dour, nor were their tears. A few goblins gave the King a pat on the back and some encouraging words before they settled down.
Estive gathered up his ratty robes and struck his staff on the cave floor. Bang! The goblins turned their eager eyes toward him. Once he was sure he had the crowd’s attention, he waved his staff over the cave and addressed the goblins. “Friends, allies, neighbors, people we tied up and dragged here, we come here together to bid a fond farewell to Justin Lawgiver, who through no fault of his own was King.”
“Poor guy,” a goblin said.
Not bothered by the interruption, Estive pointed his staff at their esteemed (and deceased) guest. “Justin, also known to us as Big J, J Master, and the Guy with the Crown, was an honest, hardworking man who gave his people a chance to make the best of themselves that they possibly could. I’ll never understand how he lasted so long. Forty years a King and every day of it a struggle with other kings, merchant guilds, his nobles, and especially his family.”
Brat shook his head. “Four sons and one throne. I do not like that math.”
Getting a little annoyed, Estive said, “You’ll get your turn. Justin fought the longest battle I ever knew to make sure his people never fought at all. He created alliances, brokered trade deals, soothed wounded egos and tried so blasted hard to keep everybody from killing each other. The job took years off his life, no question. If the world was fair he would have been born a potter or yam farmer.
“Instead he was surrounded by petty, vindictive, greedy, and otherwise not at all nice people. Any one of us would have run off in a heartbeat, but he stuck it out and made it work. My theory was he used magic or possibly blackmail, but I’ve been told by people who know such things that he didn’t.
“And he was good to us!” Estive shouted. Goblins chorused their agreement as Estive said, “No more anti-goblin raids by the army. No more goblin hunting parties for the nobles. No more bounties on goblin heads. He put a stop to that here and in neighboring lands. They hated him for it, but he stood strong no matter how they yelled at him and threatened him.”
Oler belched and scratched himself.
“That’s why we had to do this. Poor Justin wasn’t even cold and his family started fighting. ‘I want to be King!’ ‘No, I want to be King!’ They should have been giving him a proper send off after the good he did for them, and instead they brawled over who got his stuff. Greedy bums one and all.” Estive banged his staff on the cave floor again. “The guy was dead, and they still weren’t going to leave him alone! So, brothers, friends, hangers on, and idiots who wandered in, we have come together to bid a fond farewell to dear Justin Lawgiver, King to the Humans, and ensure his peaceful rest.”
A goblin in the crowd waved to get Estive’s attention. “You’re sure he’s not a goblin?”
“We’ve been over this,” Brat said. “Several times.”
“I mean, it makes more sense if he’s always been one of us,” the goblin continued. More goblins nodded, proof that the man/goblin debate still wasn’t settled.
Estive lost his patience and threw a rock at the offending goblin, missing by inches. “He’s twice as tall as you are and four times as heavy! And, I might add, he was born instead of falling out of a giant mushroom like we are!”
“I’m just saying,” the other goblin persisted.
“Just say it somewhere else.” Estive waved his staff at Brat for him to come over and take his place. “Before we bid goodnight to Justin, I’d like to ask the people who knew him best to say a few words.”
Oler picked his ear and farted.
“It’s Brat’s turn first, Oler,” Estive said. He stepped away from the body and let Brat speak.
Brat brushed his dirty hair aside and spoke to the goblin mob. “We were able to break into the castle by—”
Estive threw a rock at Brat and hit him in the shoulder. “Talk about the dead guy!”
“Okay, okay! Geez.” Brat rubbed his shoulder and began again. “The first time I met Justin was twenty years ago. The boys and me had broken into his castle for some food. It wasn’t hard when they just dump their potato peelings and coffee grounds in buckets where anyone could get them. Anyway, we were nearly out when Justin and his knights came by. Me and Oler hid up in the rafters and waited for them to leave when a rafter gave way and dumped me on the floor, and both my buckets landed on my head.”
Brat laughed. “Hoo boy, was that embarrassing! The knights went for their swords, and I was about to run when Justin broke out laughing. He went down on his knees and then sat down so he didn’t fall over. I’d seen him plenty of times before that, but that was the first time I saw him laugh. When he got his breath back, he told the knights to escort me outside the castle, and he let me keep my stuff. Then he said that from now on he’d have his cooks leave their kitchen scraps outside the walls where we can get them.”
There was a pause as Brat looked at the King. “Most people won’t do that for you. I mean, he couldn’t eat the stuff, but he still could have kept it from us or burned it.”
“We should have done more for him,” a goblin said.
“After that I checked in on him every chance I got,” Brat continued. “So many people shouted at him, demanding stuff. Most of the time they wanted gold, but his sons kept demanding his crown. I found him once when he was alone. He was watching little kids playing in the streets, and he had this big smile. I went over and said he should go play with them. He shook his head and said, ‘There are things a King cannot do.’ So I said, ‘But you want to,’ and he nodded.”
“We tried,” Estive said.
“We tried,” Brat echoed. “I got him laughing a couple of times, and I made a few of his enemies look stupid. I can’t take too much credit for the last part when they were already as dumb as toast. But it was a little bit of happy against a whole lot of sad. Today we’re putting things right. Justin will be with friends from now on, and let those jerks argue without him. Oler, it’s your turn.”
Oler looked surprised. He tried to back away, but other goblins nudged him up to the King. Oler wasn’t sure what to do. He’d seen funerals before. Most of the time people said profound things about the dead guy. Oler wasn’t good at that. Other times they were polite and poetic. He really wasn’t good at that.
“Go on,” Brat urged him.
Oler looked at the King for a while as he tried to come up with honest words to say. He placed his right hand over Justin’s stilled heart. “We will meet again.”
Estive and Brat patted him on the back and let him join the other goblins. As one the goblins gathered around the King and lifted him up. They carried him to a small chamber in the cave network and placed him there with the streamers and a plate of food (just in case).
With the King safe in his tomb, Estive placed a folded piece of paper in Justin’s hand. “A map, should you get lost on your final journey.” He placed his staff across the King’s chest, saying, “My staff, should the trip prove tiring.” Finally he took two dice from Brat and slipped them into the King’s pocket. “Loaded dice, because you’re the unluckiest man I’ve met, and anything that tips the odds in your favor is good.”
From there the goblins gathered rocks and wet clay. They carefully placed the rocks across the chamber’s entrance, fitting them together so tightly it was hard to see between them. They mixed the clay with powdered stone from the caves until it took on the same color as the native rock. They pressed the clay between the rocks and over them like cement. Goblins heated the clay with fire until it became hard as stone. More goblins chiseled the clay to remove any imperfections. Normally goblins wouldn’t go to so much effort, but there are things you’ll only do for a friend.
When they were done, the entrance to the chamber was gone, covered so well it looked as if it was a solid wall and always had been.
Brat gave an approving smile. “Even I couldn’t break into here. If the humans find our cave and searched it, they’d never find Justin Lawgiver.”
“I hear tell you can’t be a king without a crown,” a goblin said.
Estive waved his hands. “Nonsense! William Bradshaw King of the Goblins doesn’t have a crown, and he’s the best King our people ever had.”
“If it’s true Justin needs a crown, then he should get to keep the one he has,” Brat said. “I won’t see him demoted for silly reasons like being dead.”
Oler sneezed.
“Good point,” Estive told him.
The goblin that brought up this topic said, “What I mean is, if Justin Lawgiver has his crown then his sons can’t have it. That means none of them can be King.”
Brat laughed at the news. “Couldn’t happen to a nicer bunch.”
Estive looked at the camouflaged tomb. He tapped it with his knuckles and smiled. “He’s safe now. We did it.”
“That we did.” Brat smiled and looked at the others. With their solemn duty done, he said, “Let’s go throw ducks at people.”

The Nether Lands

The ultra-modern Markthal in Rotterdam might be the last place you’d look for ancient artifacts capable of stopping a demon. High-end designers sold in store fronts next to upscale second-hand stores give a unique feel to a unique town. I entered an antique shop that had been open since the beginning of the sixteenth century. Although when it had opened five hundred years ago it wasn’t an antique shop, it was just a shop.
I’d never been here in person, having only done business with them online. They specialized in magical and spiritual items, and I use magical and spiritual items in my line of work. I’m a Hamal, which my father said meant guardian or protector in some ancient Akkadian dialect. I hadn’t devoted myself to becoming fluent in the language. I’m not a scholar. I’m a brute and very happy with my brutish life.
Inside the store I browsed while a pale-skinned Nederlander fretted over which armoire to buy. The owner, Jos, kept his distance and interjected various pieces of information at critical junctures. He was smooth, making both pieces of furniture look appealing but subtly moving the man towards the more expensive of the two. It was also the less magical of the two. Everything in the shop hummed with magical energy. Most of the items had only absorbed the energy from more powerful artifacts. Yet even that residue could be harmful in a house of discordant energies. Jos clearly thought this man’s house was one of those.
The issue was solved when the man’s wife entered the shop, looked at the two price tags, and chose the more expensive of the two. She didn’t seem to care what they looked like, only how much it was. Jos gave her a sheet on the history of the item complete with interesting talking points for parties, and she gave him a big smile. As they left I stepped up to the large man.
“I need something to banish a demon.”
“Well, I think you have the wrong stor—” I handed him a card with a series of numbers and letters on it.
He nodded and punched my purchaser’s code into an app on his smart phone and waited for confirmation. It wasn’t a password but a complex algorithm that changed every time I wanted to make a purchase. I had to solve equations and answer questions to get the code and then it was only good for twenty-four hours. And since I was doing it in person there were additional questions to answer. He handed me the phone as the questions came up and stepped behind the counter.
He made a show of putting together a plate of cheeses and breads, but I knew there would be a security switch back there. When he threw it the store would go on lockdown and he would pull a weapon and kill me. That was, if I got the questions wrong. When you dealt with the things I was asking for you had to be prepared for evil to come knocking on your door. The last question was a language one, an Akkadian conjugation. I hated language questions.
“Sorry about this last one, going to take me a second. Had nightmares on the flight over and I’m tired.” Sweat began to trickle down my spine, and I saw his hand slip under the counter.
I selected my answer and the screen turned green. The tension in Jos’s shoulders eased, and he brought me the plate of food.
“Welcome to the store mister ... Tariq Jones?”
“Grandma married a Jones.”
“Ah, yes. It will be just a moment while I check our inventory.”
I consumed half of the food while he was typing on the phone. I choked a little on the dry bread.
“Do you have something to drink?” I asked around the bread still in my mouth, little bits flying out into the air as I did so.
He sneered but grabbed me a cold beer from a mini-fridge behind the counter.
“What kind of demon are you hunting?”
I swallowed the beer and bread. “I don’t know. One of our Readers had a vision of a demon in Rotterdam so they sent me out. That’s all I have.”
“If they had a vision of a demon, why don’t you know what kind?”
“Our Readers aren’t normally psychic in that way. They read information from the world, hence why we call them Readers. Newspapers, internet, books, anything written, and they use magic to find patterns and oddities. They gather data and intel and form solid conclusions about what is happening. But this vision....” I took another long swallow of the beer. “It wasn’t a conclusion, just that there was a demon. So here I am.” I killed the last of the beer and raised my eyebrow inquiring about another one. He handed me a fresh one while throwing the empty bottle in the recycle bin.
“I have a couple of options for you. First is a chastity belt worn by the illegitimate child of Charles the Fifth. He worked in an asylum with the demented and was said to have loved and cared for them with such compassion that the belt has become an anathema for any evil.”
“Do I have to wear it for it to work?”
“No, just have it on you. It will add power to any banishment ritual.”
“Okay, what else?”
“I have a badge worn by Lothair the First. It isn’t all that powerful for banishing, but it can trap a demon’s attention for hours, even days.”
“Like they can’t stop staring at it?”
“Um....”
“Why the hesitation?”
“Because it is in the shape....” He trailed off as a customer walked in and browsed the books near the front of the store. Leaning in close he said, “In the shape of things not mentionable in polite company.”
“What?” I barked out a laugh making the customer look up. “That can’t be real?”
Hunching over, Jos said in an angry whisper, “I assure you it is real. It is crude but it is what it is. The Emperor was said to have used the body of his lover as the fuel for the fire that cast it. She may or may not have been a nymph, and he was enthralled with her. He couldn’t cast her face since it would shame his wife the Queen.”
“You are just a collection of strange, my friend.”
He straightened and beamed. “We strive to please.”
The customer wandered on to another store.
“So just those two?”
He hesitated.
“What? What are you holding back?”
“I have one very special item that I hesitate to part with. It is ... unique.”
“Aren’t all these things unique? Isn’t that why they do what they do?”
“Well, yes, but not like this. Those things are not unique items. Their heritage is unique. There are many badges and many chastity belts. But there is only one of these.” He left me standing at the counter, pulled down the security gate, locked it into place, and then led me into the back. Setting a strong box on the table, he opened it to reveal a pistol that would send steampunk enthusiasts into convulsions of pleasure.
“This is the pistol given to the one and only Charlemagne by the Maestro Pensatore.”
I squinted. “That can’t be right.” Once again, I wasn’t a scholar but in my line of work you learn about old stuff. Demons like and hate old stuff. “Gun powder hadn’t even been discovered in China at that time.”
“Indeed it had not. And pistols didn’t come around until the fourteenth century, five hundred years after this was made.” He ran a hand over its polished gold, iron, silver, and wood surface. “Let alone another thousand before something this complex was made.”
“So it’s a fake.”
“That was my thought, too. Eight generations ago one of my ancestors procured it for the family and has passed the story down for generations. But I knew better when the story was told to me. I brought in expert after expert; they all agreed it couldn’t be as old as they said. It was laughable. An old woman who had been taken by a swindler.” He looked at me trying to keep a solemn face on, but I could see the smile fighting to get free.
“Okay, I’ll bite. But....”
“But one expert caught something that I had not. Every expert that examined the pistol agreed it had to be from the mid-to-late eighteenth century. But one expert saw something none of us had. It’s an electrical weapon.”
“What?”
He picked up the weapon and with care undid several clasps and lifted out the firing lever, and I saw there wasn’t a gear or spring underneath but a long black rod. It sat centered in a dark hole, not touching the sides. As he pulled it out, the rod came near to the side of the hole and jumped to the right. It was a magnet.
Using a small flashlight, he lit up the hole that I could see was several rings covered in wire. It was a simple, yet effective electrical generator.
“So it has to be newer. From the late 1800s or something.”
“Except my grandmother bought it in 1763. And I don’t question that date because I have the records since then.”
I’d seen enough impossible things to roll with it. “So what did you figure out?”
He nodded at my acceptance of the impossible. “It was all in the name of the gifter, Maestro Pensatore. Master Thinker. Do you know who else was named Master Thinker?”
“Nope.” I didn’t like guessing games.
“Archimedes. Do you know who he is?”
“I’m a brute, not an idiot.”
He raised his hands in apology. “Well, Arch means master and medes means thinker.”
“So, you’re saying a dead Greek guy gave Charlemagne an electric pistol?”
“Yes, but no. He was not dead. Still may not be dead. I believe he was a Katask.”
I whistled. “Now that I’ve heard of. Like the Demiurge or Zeus?”
“Yes. They are makers, or constructors. I brought in an Oracle to confirm my theory and learned two things. It was made by Archimedes and my ancestor was an otherworlder.”
“Archimedes built this to hunt demons?”
“No, to kill something supernatural Charlemagne was having trouble with.”
“What kind of supernatural?”
“Don’t know.”
“Then how do you know it will kill a demon?”
“Because my grandmother, my mom’s mom, not the ancient one, killed a demon with it.”
“How much?”
“Once again, I’m not sure I want to let this go. It’s been in the family a long time.”
“And it could have been wiping out demons that whole time. I guarantee my family will take care of it.”
“A thought just occurred to me, why didn’t you go to the guard for artifacts? They would have let a Hamal use them.”
I glanced away. “The Primitus Guard and I aren’t on the best of terms.”
The earlier tension returned to his shoulders. “And why would that be?” His eyes shifted to the right where a weapon must be stored.
I held my hands up. “No worries. I’m Hamal. I’m just not in an Order.”
His lip curled up in a snarl. “A bounty hunter.” He pulled the pistol closer.
“No ... Well, at least not usually. My family has always been unbound. We take commissions from the Orders. We’re specialists, heavies. Blood of Asherbanipal and all that.”
“What do you mean not usually?” He still hadn’t let go of the pistol strongbox.
“I mean if I run across a bounty in the course of my work, I’m not going to turn it down. But I don’t go looking for them, and I don’t accept contracts for them.”
“And why doesn’t the Guard like you?”
“Because I’m unbound. They think it means we have no code of honor. Which we do, it’s just looser than the Orders’. That’s why they hire us, because we can do things they can’t.” I sighed, “My people aren’t like the Guard, Orders, and Emirs. We play it too loose sometimes. We aren’t above making a quick buck. We take care of each other and do our best to keep innocents safe. We’re a lot like your people. It’s one of the reasons we like doing business with you rather than your competitors. Tradition is only worthwhile as long as it doesn’t hold us back.”
“Three million.”
“Two million and you throw in the other two items.”
“Two and a half and you get the chastity belt.”
“Two and a quarter. Both items and your family can visit the pistol when they want.”
“I need it up front.”
“You have my purchaser’s code.”
He pulled out his phone and began to push buttons.
“I’m going to go grab some food real quick and then I’ll be back.”
Dad was going to be furious at me spending the money without authorization but once he saw the gun it would be worth it. Even if it didn’t kill the demon, it was awesome.
Back in the shop Jos had everything packed up ready to go. “How are you going to find it?”
“Bounce spell. Gonna hit up Grote of Saint-Laurenskerk—I’m sure I didn’t say that right—to power it.”
“Old Church might be better than St. Lawrence.”
“Naw, the violence gives me a better edge at finding a demon. A church that resisted the Nazis; that’s where I’m going to get my biggest boost for a demon bounce back.”
“That’s your area, I won’t argue. Good luck, my friend.”
I grabbed a taxi and found the doors of the church unlocked. It was empty save for the few clergy up front standing in a loose circle having a conversation. Sitting on one of the plastic chairs, I waved off a priest, or whatever they’re called, and bowed my head as in prayer. Pulling out an old piece of parchment from my inside pocket, I unfolded it and laid it on my lap. I spoke a few words in Akkadian and the strange cuneiform writing began to glow and pulse with magic until the image of the sun stood out in chromatic splendor on the page. It took on depth and substance as the pulse intensified.
Looking up, I confirmed that no one was looking and whispered a word of power to crack the corner of a stone tile. Using my knife I pried up the chipped piece and laid the parchment over the hole. I set the chip in the center of the sun, which was now producing enough heat to singe the hairs on the back of my hand. In an instant the sun reached out with flames made of cuneiform symbols and devoured the stone chip.
“Lamādu gallû addāniqa.” Find demon please.
It wasn’t eloquent but it got the job done. I really did hate languages. The sun pulsed and a hum began to build under the paper. I wasn’t worried about the priests hearing it. The vibrations were contained to the magical spectrum. Soon the entire building shook with the power of the spell. The chip had connected it to the building allowing all the years of worship, power struggles, and violence to be co-opted for the moment.
I had to work hard to stay upright as the bone-shaking thrums sent their power out into the city around me. The spell worked like radar pushing the sound out into the unknown. Except only demons reflected sound back. As I waited for a return I closed my eyes and focused on receiving. The pingback wouldn’t come as a sound but would form an image in my mind. No, image wasn’t the right word. A map, knowledge of where to go. It was a magical thing and not easily explained in ordinary terms.
When it came, it hit like a freight train and I fell to my knees. I didn’t have to fake the tears as the images of horror ripped through my brain. Words of hate and images that drove a mind beyond insanity rolled over me like waves. It was the taint of the demon, the slight touch of its twisted heart. If it hadn’t been faded by distance it might have broken me right there.
I got back in the chair and looked up. It had only been seconds, the priests were still moving towards me, but it had felt like an hour of assaults. I wiped my tears and tried to wave them away but they kept coming.
“‘Gaat het met je, vriend??” the young priest said.
I didn’t know what he said. “No, thanks.”
He furrowed his brows. “Are you all right, my friend?” His words were crisp and measured.
Still reeling from the demon’s touch, I thought for a moment he could see the taint on me. Had my face become demonic in the moment of torment? That was crazy. I’d done this before, seen it done before, it wasn’t anything like that. This had been stronger than I was used to but I think that had to do with the church rather than the demon. There was a lot of power here, more than I expected.
“I’m fine. Dead wife. Sad.” I wasn’t speaking like a simpleton for his benefit, I just couldn’t create complex thoughts right at this second.
“I pray with you.” The priest began to kneel next to me.
“No, you don’t nee—” A scream broke free of my throat before I knew it was coming.
A second demon’s touch hit me, tearing deeper into my psyche than the first. I don’t remember falling, but I could feel the cold stone under my cheek as rivers of fire laced through my soul. My eyes were open and I could see the frantic look on the priest’s face, as if looking through binoculars. Behind him was a girl with half of her head shaved and the other half dyed a bright purple.
Where had she come from?
They weren’t here and now with me, they were in a different world, a different place. I was in a realm of terror where human souls were tortured by monstrous beings that my mind couldn’t contain.
And as the first had, it passed and I pushed myself up onto all fours. I could hear the priest rambling in the background but it was like my head was swaddled in cotton. Blood dripped to the floor from somewhere on my head. It wasn’t much blood so it wasn’t a threat.
Then I vomited as the third wave hit. I don’t remember much after that, just pain and terror as a third demon chased me through the passages of my own mind. Memories and thoughts that had once been my personality now became my pursuers. The evil clawed at my insides as family and friends morphed into grotesque beings warped by the presence of the demon. They rent my flesh and pawed at my sanity trying to pull me down with them. Only my training in psychic attacks allowed me to keep moving, to stay alive.
When I woke there were three EMTs kneeling over me tending to my wounds. Behind them was a police officer holding his pistol out but not trained on me. Another officer was examining the antique pistol that had been in the bag at my side.
“Careful, that’s a three million dollar antique,” I croaked out pointing at the officer.
All five of the officials frowned at me. Either they didn’t speak any English or not enough to understand what I had said. The girl with the purple hair translated for me.
The cop holding the pistol said, “I know what he said, I just don’t understand why he’s carrying it in a shopping bag.” His English was better than mine.
“Didn’t know I was—” I broke out in a coughing fit. “Sorry, didn’t know I was going to buy it.”
“You said your wife just died.”
“Yes. She died from cancer. She had always wanted to come here and so I was sightseeing when I saw the pistol. She would have loved it. She would’ve redecorated our whole front room around it and it made me sad. The owner of the shop said I should come here to pray and seek solace.”
“Do you often have seizures?”
“Is that what happened?”
“So, you’ve never had this happen before?”
“No.” I had been stalling while I recovered my wits enough to stand. The EMTs tried to keep me down but I assured them I was fine. The bag still contained the chastity belt and badge. I picked it up and slid it onto my arm. Spreading all ten fingers I focused my thoughts on silence and stillness.
“Naḫarbušu.” I hated using my freeze spell on them.
I mean, I didn’t hate freezing them. The spell had no ill effects other than a little confusion. Well, a lot of confusion when I disappeared in front of their eyes, but no physical effects. But it took a long time to prepare the spells ahead of time and bind them on the mind. I wouldn’t have time to do it again before facing the demon.
Three demons, not one. That’s why I couldn’t spend time messing around with the cops. Three demons’ essences had assaulted my mind. Except as I gathered up the pistol and strongbox I couldn't quite shake the feeling that it wasn’t three separate demons, but one demon in three places. That wasn’t possible. A demon this small just didn’t have that power. There are legends of people and creatures with bi-location powers but they’re of iffy reliability at best. But demons were bound to the human who had summoned them. They couldn’t split themselves and travel at will. And no human, no matter how great, could command a demon that would be capable of such a feat.
A demon that could be in three places at once wouldn’t be hiding. It would be tearing a path of destruction through the world. A demon like that causes destruction on a Godzilla level. Nagasaki was the result of such a demon. A Japanese response to the attack on Hiroshima gone horribly wrong. No, this demon wasn’t of that power level but still, the thought itched at my brain.
Outside I looked for a cab but there were none in sight. The spell would only last another three minutes so I had to be out of reach by then.
“I can take you where you need to go, Hamal,” a voice said from behind.
I jumped and brought my hand around, power surging, ready to annihilate the threat. But it was only the woman with purple hair. Except it was the woman with purple hair. She should be as frozen as the rest of them but here she was standing in front of me.
Her golden skin radiated in the midday light as she stood, one hand on her hip. Her low slung jeans didn’t quite meet the end of her T-shirt and I could see the taut muscles of her stomach. Her eyes were liquid black, the irises as dark as the pupils, and it felt like you could fall into them forever. They were so warm and comforting I wanted to live in them, dwell in them, be—
She looked away and I blinked. I had taken a step towards her without realizing it. I took in a deep breath to fill my lungs with air. Her eyes had been more important than breathing.
“Sorry about that,” she said, her voice a little breathy as though we had just broken from a passionate kiss.
I spun the ring on my middle left finger around so I could touch the gem with my thumb. Using the magic bound permanently to it I looked at her with the Eyes of Truth. She looked as she did now, save that she had a red aura of magic around her, and instead of a heart in her chest she had a glowing ball of magma. She was a demon by definition, something born of hate, but there was no menace to her. Many demons, especially the old ones, who had been allowed to roam freely on Earth left the chains of evil behind. It didn’t mean they were good, only they were as free as humans to choose to do right and wrong. With her skin, eyes, and red aura I knew what she was.
“You’re a lilitu.”
She smiled and there was real joy in it. “I’m glad to see they still teach about us.”
“Will you give me your name?” It was a big question.
Names didn’t have power like some claimed, you couldn’t control something just by knowing their name. But names led to knowledge and knowledge was power.
“I will, but not right now. Your spell was impressive, for a human.” She smiled again and I found it lifted my spirits. “But it will wear off soon. Let’s go and then we can talk about who I am and why you were looking for demons.”
I hesitated. I needed to leave but I needed to know she was safe, too. She hadn’t been in the church before I had sent out the bounce spell.
“I am not her. I’m not Lilith. Can we go now?”
It didn’t answer the question, but it did make me feel better. I waved for her to lead the way. With the Eyes of Truth still up I could see she wasn’t lying. More than that, I could see she didn’t want to be associated with Lilith and her insanity. Again, she might not be good but she wasn’t all bad. I needed help, and she seemed willing to help. We got in her Mercedes and left the church behind.
I indicated for her to pull over to the curb after five minutes of driving in silence. Immortal beings were like that, always comfortable with the silences.
I stepped out of the car. “I need to make a phone call real quick, will you wait for me?”
“Do you want me to wait for you?”
I could feel the tug of her sensuality. “Yes. I need help right now, and you’re what I have.”
“Oohh, you flatter me.”
“I didn’t—”
“I’m kidding. I’ll wait. It has been a long time since I have smelled the blood of an Assyrian king, and I’m not willing to give that up yet.”
“That’s ... disturbing.”
“I give you my word, I mean no harm.”
Again the Eyes of Truth confirmed she wasn’t lying. I don’t know how a demon was promising aid and no harm without lying but there it was. I closed the door and stepped inside the small coffee shop. I ordered two coffees black and sat in a chair by the window to make my calls.
“Jos.”
“It’s Tariq. I need the name and number of that Oracle.”
“I don’t give my friends’ information out so easily.”
“I get that but there are three demons on the loose in your city. Or possibly one that can be in three places at once.”
“That is impossible.”
“I know. That’s why I need more intel. They’re strong and I got the impression they’re just beginning their plans.”
“I will have her call you.”
“Fair enough. But do it as soon as possible. I don’t want to face this thing at night.”
“De mazzel.”
“Thanks. I need all the luck I can get.”
I dialed the next number.
“Tariq, what’s up?”
“It’s bad here, Dad. There are either three demons or one demon that can be in three places.”
“How did it feel?” He was a Hamal so he knew the process.
“How it felt isn’t how it could be.”
“You need to learn to trust your instincts, son. They’re better than you know.”
“But how could it be in three places at once?”
“That is disturbing.”
“I think I should wait till you can send backup.”
“That might be a good plan.”
“I have an Oracle that’s going to call me. I’ll let you know what she says.”
“How did you get that hookup?”
“From the guy that sold me the three million dollar demon-killing pistol made by Archimedes.” The patrons were giving me sideways glances.
“Okay ... you spent three million dollars?”
“No, two and quarter but it’s worth three. And really? That’s what you got from that statement?”
The barista, or whatever they’re called in the Netherlands, set the two coffees down on my table with the little disposable cups of cream and packets of sugar. I didn’t know how ancient female Akkadian demons liked their coffee.
“I have to go, Dad. My lilitu chauffeur is waiting for me.”
“Excuse me?”
“You heard me. Send backup.”
I gathered all my goods together as someone licked the back of my ear.
I knocked the chair over standing up and bringing my fist up to throw a force punch spell. Nothing was near enough to have performed the act of personal space violation. I knew my eyes must be wild because the other guests slipped out the nearest door, even the emergency exit. Trying to regain my dignity, I put the phone in my pocket and headed outside. Juggling the coffees, I opened the door. I noticed the demon was wearing a different shirt as I slid in. The T-shirt had given way to a low-cut sequined blouse with thin straps. It was the same color as her hair and had no back to it save for a single tied string.
“You changed your shirt?”
She looked down in surprise. “Oh, I didn’t mean to.” The shirt morphed back into the worn cotton T-shirt from before.
“What do you mean you didn’t mean to?”
“Well, I control my impulses for the most part, but your bloodline is like an aphrodisiac to me.” She frowned as though that was a problem.
She hadn’t started the car yet, and I considered getting out and finding my own way. But my phone rang and she pulled away from the curb.
“Tariq.”
A musical voice replied, “Jos said you need my help finding some demons.” It sounded like she was high.
“Yes, ma’am. Or possibly one demon that can be in three places at once.”
“And you believe this demon to be a major threat?”
“I suspect. I don’t know if that is the same thing as believe.”
“Honesty. That is rare. But I believe you are correct and the situation is not good.”
“No, ma’am.” I wasn’t sure if she was a new Oracle or one of the originals from ancient Greece but it was better not to take chances and be polite.
“Meet me at the New Ocean Paradise in thirty minutes.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
I looked at the other demon in my life right now. “The Oracle wants us to meet her at the New Ocean Paradise in thirty minutes.”
“Really?”
“Yes, ma’am.” No reason to show disrespect to her either.
“All right. It’s only like fifteen minutes away.”
“Can you tell me your name now?”
“Sari. Do you know it?”
I concentrated on what I had learned about lilitu. Lilith was the most well-known but there had been hundreds of them originally. The Catholic Church had killed many of them and at the present time we only knew of a dozen or so. Sari wasn’t one of the names I remembered.
“I don’t think so.”
She gave me that heart-skipping smile again. “Good. Means I’m doing something right.”
I looked straight forward to avoid staring at her slender neck. “What do you mean?”
“I mean, I’ve been trying to be a good girl for the last three hundred years or so. And if the Hamal don’t teach about me, then I must be on the right track.”
“You need someone else to tell you that?”
She bit her lip. “Well, yeah. You know what I am.”
“A lilitu.”
“I’m from the otherworld. I was closer to what you might call a dryad once. Beautiful. Inside and out. But my home was taken from me, and I let vengeance twist my heart. It twisted me until I became a demon. And I was banished to the underrealm. You know what that is?”
“Yeah, I just spent a few minutes in it back at the church.”
“Ah, that explains the vomit.” She swerved around a slow moving car. “Twenty-five thousand years ago a sad man called me forth to this world. He didn’t want me to hurt anyone, he didn’t want power; he only wanted someone to talk to. His wife and child had died and he was lonely. I spent the next sixty years as his friend and lover. Before he died, he unbound me and let me wander the world. I killed him as a result.”
My hand inched towards the strongbox that held the pistol. She didn’t miss the movement.
“When I think about it, I’m filled with such melancholy that I might wish for you to use that pistol on me.”
“You have remorse over the killing?”
“I’m not sure if that is the correct word. Even now my emotions are not like your emotions. Do you know what happens to unbound demons?”
“They can do whatever they want.”
She smiled, but it didn’t have the same power to it. There was sadness in it now.
“Yes and no. I was corrupted by my birth as a demon. Right and wrong, good and evil, were not concepts I could readily understand. I didn’t do evil. I was a good creature in my own mind. It took me fifteen hundred years to overcome that deficiency.”
“But you said you’ve only been trying to be good for three hundred.”
“Just because I learned the difference doesn’t mean I wanted to change.” She looked away so I couldn’t read her face. “Or even could change. I had been what I had been for so long that I didn’t see other paths. I didn’t look for them.”
“What changed?”
“That is ... personal. But the important part is I did change. It took me a while. I spent three hundred years thinking I was being good only to find out I was destroying people’s lives by my manipulations. So then, I started again, in good faith and with guidance, three hundred years ago.”
“And now you’re good?”
She pursed her lips to the side. They were luscious. “That is hard to say. My birth still distresses me. I think I have a good grip on good and evil, but still, it is only based on the perspective of others. There is no such connection made in my mind to actions I take. Only the guilt I have when I do it wrong.”
“That sounds horrific. I’m sorry.”
Her life changing smile was back again. “I’ve never had anyone apologize for the struggles of my life.”
“Well, if you’re trying to be good, I think you should have the benefit of the doubt.”
She stopped the car in front of a floating combination Chinese restaurant and motel and got out, ending the conversation. Immortals are abrupt like that. I tried not to stare at the way her hips moved but there was magic there. Real magic made to entice me.
The smells of the Chinese market on the first floor of the boat pulled my eyes away. Mixed with the tang of the harbor, it was overwhelming to say the least. At the top of the gangplank I felt a hand touch my shoulder and spun to see who it was. There was no one even near.
“You okay?” Sari asked.
“Yeah, just thought....” I trailed off as I felt the slime on my shoulder.
“It knows you’re looking for it, and it’s trying to scare you off.”
“I know. It’s not been the first time I’ve been slimed.” It was the first time it had happened without the demon being present, however.
We chose the lower buffet restaurant and waited for the Oracle to show up. We didn’t have to worry about her finding us; she was an Oracle after all. We were on our first plate when an exotic olive-skinned woman with hair so black that it sucked in the light around it sat down. She didn’t look at us because her eyes were the milky-white of the blind.
“You seek the demon yet dine with another?”
“She’s helping me.”
“You cannot trust her. She cannot trust herself.”
“I have told him so.”
“And have you asked him to end your life as you should?”
“I’m not sure I’m there yet.”
The Oracle nodded her understanding. “I cannot help you find this demon. It is ... hidden even from my sight.”
It took me a few seconds to process what Sari had said and catch up to the Oracle’s statement.
“What does that mean?” I asked.
“I do not know. But I am not omniscient, only powerful. It may be that something is hiding it from me. It may be that I just cannot see it.”
“I’m sorry for making you come all the way out here.”
“If that’s all she had to say, she would have just called. She has more,” Sari said with fried noodles hanging from her mouth. How did she make that look sexy?
“Indeed, I do. I may not be able to see the demon but I can see you. If you hunt the demon tonight I cannot see you in the world tomorrow.”
“Like I die?”
“Like you are sent to the underrealm.”
I swallowed hard. “That is a fate I would like to avoid.”
Sari shuddered and sweat broke out on her forehead. “Yes, it is.”
“Yes, you would. But if you wait until tomorrow night to begin the hunt you will fail.”
“That doesn’t leave much of a window.”
“Such is the world.”
“When can I hunt it?”
The Oracle stood, nodded to us, and left, that lovely immortal abruptness at its best. I stood to chase her but Sari stopped me.
“They have rules. They are forbidden from saying certain things that would change the future in drastic ways.”
The Oracle turned around near the door and spoke across the crowd. She didn’t raise her voice, but I heard her like she was speaking directly into my ear.
“You should stay here tonight. I stayed here once, and it was just the most charming experience.” She smiled and wiggled her fingers goodbye.
Sari chuckled. “Clever.”
“What?”
“This place has never been described as charming.”
“So?”
“She can’t tell you what to do so she told you something else to help. Staying here will get you closer to the goal.”
“Really?”
“Really.”
“Thank you.”
“For what?”
“For helping me.”
“Are you saying goodbye?”
“Well, yes. I mean, no. I mean, I thought you would be leaving.”
“What made you think that?”
“Well, you offered to give me a ride, not fight demons with me.”
“And that’s all you want from me?” That urgent pull again. “You wouldn’t like my help?”
“I honestly don’t know how to answer that. You tell me you want to be good but that I can’t trust you.”
“But I can help you trust me.”
“How?”
“Bind myself to your purpose.”
I went very still. “You will what?”
She shrugged like she was talking about what TV show to watch. “It’s not that big of a deal.” She picked up a chunk of orange chicken with her chopsticks. “When your purpose is done, I’ll be free again.”
“But you’re giving up your free will.”
“To fight evil. I think it will help me on my road.”
“What road?”
Even through her complexion I could see some color rise in her cheeks. “Never mind. I know you’re a good guy and won’t take advantage of me. Or at least, not in any way I wouldn’t enjoy.” She had good bedroom eyes.
“Well, we better go get some rooms.”
“Rooms?”
“Rooms.” I reaffirmed and her shoulders slumped a little. “If I have time, I’m going to bind some spells.”
“Don’t you need tokens, focuses, and ingredients for that?”
“Nope. Blood of Kings, remember? I have certain ones I can do without all that stuff. Things that are more complex require more stuff, of course, but these are just brute spells cause that’s what I am, a brute.”
“Pity I won’t get to find out.” She bit her lip and raised her eyebrows. And my blood pressure with them.
They had two adjoining rooms and I saw what Sari meant about not being charming. The rooms were clean but worn and the smell from the restaurants and market did not make it a relaxing atmosphere. But I had been in worse and this would serve us for the night.
Before binding my spells I drew a knife across Sari’s left bicep and left thigh drawing blood that was leaving and going to the heart. I wasn’t a theorist so I didn’t know why it had to be like this, but I knew it worked. With a few words of binding, she knelt and swore herself to my purpose. I felt her power twitch at the edge of my perception. For as long as I hunted this demon, she was mine to command. She stood up and was closer than she should have been, the knowledge of what I was thinking clear in her eyes. She broke eye contact first because I don’t think I would have been able to. I closed the door to her room as she healed the cuts.
I concentrated on adding a few more banishment spells and one more force spell to my arsenal. I wish I had time to prepare the freeze spell but I would need focuses or several days for that. I checked in with my dad, who assured me backup was on the way. I told him what the Oracle said, and he warned me not to mess around with this stuff. I told him I was taking her advice and not going hunting. I ignored his questions about Sari because I didn’t know how to answer them.
I meditated, centering myself and removing the distractions that had cropped up in my mind. Mainly the sight of Sari’s stomach every time she moved. Thoughts like that could be deadly. Not just because they could be a distraction at a crucial moment but because she was a demon. Getting into bed with a devil was never a good idea.
Deep in the reaches of my mind the feeling of being watched returned. I knew it wasn’t my body being watched, but my psyche. I felt for the presence and found nothing. Still, every time I focused I felt like there was something to focus on. And every time I found nothing I could detect the residue of evil left over. Whatever was trying to find me was better at hiding than I was at forcing the issue. I had been working on the evil presence in my mind for hours when I felt the first spider legs of evil crawl across my neck.
I stood, looping the chastity belt around my chest like a bandolier. The ... uh ... business end was on my back and I was fervently hoping it had been washed at some point in the last six hundred years. Slipping the badge into my pocket, I loaded one round bullet into each of the stacked barrels of the pistol.
The doors opened between the rooms, and Sari stood in a tactical vest carrying two curved short swords. I stared at her, at the door, and then at her again. I had slid the safety chain into place, I was sure of it. She looked at the object of my interest and shrugged.
“I see you felt it, too,” she said as she sat on my bed.
“Yep.”
“We’re going to go kill it now, right?”
“Nope.”
“What? If we can feel it like that, it has to be on this floor, like one or two doors away.” She paused. “I guess it could be directly under us, but I got the feeling it was in that direction.” She pointed away from her room.
“Me too, but going after it is a little too close to hunting. And there is no way in ... well, there is no way I’m going to the underrealm.”
“What’re we going to do then?”
“You’re going to sit there looking like your beautiful self, and I’m going to open the door and stand behind it. When it comes through the door, drop to the ground, and I’ll shoot it in the back.”
“I’m bait?”
“Irresistible bait.”
“Keep that up and I might just have to take advantage of you.”
I felt that sensual pull again.
“Really, right now you’re going to do that?”
“I was just teasing you. Open the door.” Again with that mind-altering smile.
I slid in behind as I pulled the heavy door open and rested the pistol on the doorknob.
“You wouldn’t think I was beautiful if you saw my true self, you know,” she said as she leaned back in a casual pose.
“I did look at your true self with the Eyes of Truth. You look just the same.” I was looking out the crack between the door and doorframe into the hall.
When she didn’t say anything back I turned to look at her. She was still in her casual pose but there was a tension to her body. She stared at me with an intensity that made my skin crawl.
“What? Why are you looking at me like that?”
“Are you sure of what you just said?”
“Yeah.”
“And you are of sufficient power to use the Eyes of Truth?”
“Yeah, I use them all the time.”
“And all you saw was me in this form?”
“Well, I saw your power in a red aura, sex, violence, and a touch of healing. And I saw your demon heart rather than a human heart but those are metaphorical rather than literal.”
“I have not returned to my true form in many years. If I did so now, would you be okay with it?”
“While we’re waiting to fight some kind of super demon that can be in three places at once?”
“In my true form I will have more of my power available to me.”
“Then by all means.” Then I thought better of it. “It won’t drive me insane, will it?”
She laughed. “No, I’m not that kind of demon.”
She shimmered and her skin glowed more. Her eyes changed from liquid black to royal purple, the pupils taking on a diamond shape. Her hair lost its purple hue and became like rays of sunlight. And her bust decreased in size which seemed like a human thing. She could make any man fall for her with those eyes, but she was worried about how well-endowed she was? Besides those changes, she was exactly the same. No, she was more beautiful.
“This was what I had to be worried about? You look amazing. I guess it is a little worrying because I might be distracted at a crucial moment.”
She frowned at me and rushed into the bathroom. There was a shrill giggle of glee and she came back out staring at her hand.
“It’s gone.”
“What’s gon—” A woman’s scream full of pain and terror tore through the motel. “Well, now it’s a rescue, not a hunt.” I flowed out the door. Sari was hot on my heels.
I had the pistol out, and I cranked the handle to charge it as we waved other guests back into their rooms. The next room was empty. Sari had done her locked door trick on it. The next door was blocked by magic that Sari couldn’t get around. We went to the next room and opened it and found two children huddled in the corner crying.
Sari said squatted down to their level, “We’re here to help. What’s wrong?”
They couldn’t speak through the tears but pointed at the doorway to the room that had been protected by magic. The adjoining rooms must have contained a family and they’d left the door ajar. I didn’t hesitate and burst into the room, pistol ready to fire.
Blackness filled my vision and lungs. Not smoke, more like fog, but as black as the deepest points in space. My eyes were useless and my knee slammed into something hard and pointy. I spun my ring around and brought up the Eyes of Truth but still couldn’t pierce the inky veil. I screamed in frustration, ready to fire into the darkness.
Sari sang out from my left, “Ego Sum Fax,” and light exploded out of her, pushing the darkness away.
The concussive wave of light pushed me back as it hit with physical force. I had no time to look at her as the new light revealed the squat, putrid form sitting on the woman in front of me.
Its claw-tipped feet were on both sides of her head and its bottom was crushing down on her chest preventing her from taking life-sustaining breaths. The foul head, dripping with ooze, hovered just above hers. Its lips were a whisper from hers as its grotesque tongue traced the outline of her plump mouth. The woman’s eyes were open and staring into the demon’s eyes but her pupils were big enough to wipe out any trace of irises.
It turned to look at us, and the woman whimpered in pain. It would have been a scream if her lungs weren’t being crushed. It looked at me as I brought the pistol to bear on it. Its gaze shifted to Sari, and he became visibly excited at the sight of her. He didn’t lunge at her, he flowed like smoke, claws stretched out to bury in her throat.
I body-checked him with my shoulder, using a force spell to increase my speed. I slammed him into the frame of the open doorway, revolted by the feel of the putrid skin. We rebounded, and I fell to the floor. He followed me down. Sari was moving towards us but she was going to be too late. And I didn’t think she could take the demon anyway. She had been as transfixed by its eyes as the woman on the bed had.
Its hands were on my shoulders, pulling itself up my body. The wind had been knocked out of me. I couldn’t get a word of power out. None of my spells would help me. Its eyes were closed as it hovered above my face, wanting to savor the first moment it took me over. Then its lids disappeared and behind them was a portal into the underrealm.
I felt myself being pulled in, dragged down into the depths where even demons went mad. My life was disappearing and there was nothing I could do about it. I moved my arms but they were in encased in wet sand, inching along. I got one arm around its waist and then I was in torment.
For a thousand years they did nothing but kill me with fire. Burning me alive, body preserved by some supernatural power until there was nothing but ash remaining. Then like some twisted form of the phoenix I was reborn to start it all again. Sometimes they used flames, sometimes lava, one particular tormentor loved liquid metal. Every second of it hurt like the first touch of heat. I never got used to it, never grew stronger from it.
After the first thousand years, they got creative. Deaths and tortures as varied as the stars of the sky. Contests were held to see whose victim could scream louder or cry longer. And the worst of it was that each regeneration brought a regeneration of hope. The physical pain was nothing compared to when they took your hope from you. When that broke its thunder would echo in your mind for days.
I don’t know how many eons I had been there before they brought my little sister out to torture in front of me.
I don’t know how many deaths and rebirths of the universe I watched her suffer before they gave me the choice of watching her suffer or letting her go if I tortured our mother. I know how many eons I killed my mother. I remember each slice, each burn, each act of violence against the angel of light that was my mother. My mind shattered into smaller and smaller pieces with each death. I was no longer human, only pain and anguish in bodily form.
The day the light broke through to my wretched existence ... that was a special day. I’d never seen light its equal in all my endless lifetimes, piercing my faceless tormentors with power and beauty. Their twisted souls burned in the light. The underrealm began to shake as the light bored through the ground like water through air. With fury the sky shattered, and I was lifted up towards the light on a hand of beauty and grace.
I came through the hole in the sky the light had torn open, and I was in my body again, the demon on top of me. Its eyes were no longer locked on mine, but on the badge of Lothair I held in my hand. Sunlight streamed through the open window. Sari collapsed underneath it holding the curtain aside. Tears were pouring from her eyes as she stared into mine. The natural light seared into the flesh of the demon on top of me and it wriggled to escape.
I held tight but it wasn’t as hard as it should have been. Its gaze was still fixed on the badge. Grunts and snuffles of pain issued from its deformed mouth. It screamed as I recited a banishment spell. Screams of my own paired with his and I could hear the children joining in on the chorus from the other room as well. The woman, roused from her nightmare by the sunlight as I had been, screamed at the scene around her as well. Sari whimpered as I fought. She had overcome the badge’s siren call. She had saved my life.
The banishment spell, aided by the chastity belt’s power slammed into the demon and bounced off with no effect. I stared wide-eyed as it began to recover from the effects of the sunlight.
With its stocky legs the demon pushed off of my stomach and leaped to the side. It stumbled, still not fully recovered. I lunged for the pistol still lying where I had dropped it, put it against the foul creature’s demon heart. It tried to bat the barrel away but my finger on the trigger was quicker.
There was no flash of flame indicating the demon had been banished. There were no screams or curses hurled at me. There was only a slight blue light and the demon ceased to be. Not banished, ceased.
I shambled over to Sari as she retched and cried out in loud sobs. The woman still cried, but it was quieter now that her children had joined her on the bed.
“You saved me.”
“It made me think such terrible things. Things of such evil and I....” Sari touched her lips. “I enjoyed them.”
“No, you didn’t.” She looked up at me. “It lied to you.” I caressed her face. “It told you that you enjoyed them, but it lied.”
“You weren’t there, you—” I put a finger to her lips.
Whispering a spell of strength I lifted her as though she was a child. Normally, I could have lifted her without the spell but after fighting the demon all night I needed some extra oomph. Besides, the spell took the edge off the pain as well. I paused to utter another spell with the last of my strength. The family on the bed fell quiet as the vanishing spell removed the last several hours from their mind and put them in a deep, restful calm.
In the bathroom, I set Sari on the counter. I washed her face and brushed the hair out of her eyes. Looking deep into those bright purple eyes, I brought her sight into mine. It wasn’t something I was good at, but I was determined right now. She swayed with the strange perspective, but I steadied her with hands on her hips. I stepped back and stared at her chest.
“Really?” she said harshly. “You want to do this now?”
I smiled. “I have the Eyes of Truth on. What do you not see?”
Her physical eyes squinted in concentration though they saw nothing. And then with astonishment her eyes went wide. She had seen what I saw the instant I had looked upon her after the nightmare. Her demon heart was gone.
She wasn’t human, she was ... whatever she had been before, but she wasn’t a demon anymore. Didn’t mean she was good. Her past would always haunt her, but she wouldn’t be at risk of falling back into the evil ways so easily anymore. We hugged for a long time, a simple act of celebration and triumph.
Breaking the embrace, I said, “Do you have any idea what that thing was?”
“Yes. It was my ... it used to be my brother. Back when I was a demon, I mean. It was a Bakhtak, nightmare demon.”
“Are there more of them, or could it be in three places at once?”
“What you felt was not it being in three places, but its consciousness burrowed into its victims. It is gone for good, which is good because you were more susceptible to it than you should have been.”
“Why do you say that?”
“Because it takes days for them to be able to bond with you enough to send you into nightmares like that.”
“Why do you think it was so easy?”
She looked up exposing her long neck again. “Either he’d been working on you already or the bounce spell let him in more than you wanted.”
“Probably that. I hadn’t been prepared for the three hits.”
“It’s why the banishment spell didn’t work either.”
“What do you mean?”
“That spell was strong enough that I thought it was going to take me out. But it bounced off of him because when the Bakhtak goes into you, you go into it. The spell felt your presence and bounced.”
“I don’t ever want to deal with one of them again.”
“I’m just glad it’s over and you’re safe.”
“And because you’re no longer a demon, you’re no longer bound to my purpose.”
“Your purpose is over anyway.”
“Nope.” I shuddered at the memories of the underrealm. I don’t know if they were just a nightmare or I had actually been there, but it felt real enough that it didn’t matter. “Still gotta find the snake who was controlling him.”
“Then I am still bound to you.”
“But you’re not a demon. That kind of magic doesn’t work on you anymore.”
“Who said anything about magic?” Her eyebrow shot up.
“Well, then my lady, let’s go hunting.”


Talori and the Shark

On the outskirts of the underwater village of Coral Bay, a mermaid glanced up at the watery distortion of the sun. Talori enjoyed a morning swim before beginning her sister’s lessons. She saw a shell cart pulled by a white hippocampus coming toward the house. A frown tugged at her lips. She replaced it with a smile and swam out to greet Mako, her father. “What a pleasant surprise,” she said as he stopped the cart. “I didn’t expect you for a few days.”
Shadows under his eyes belied the weak smile he offered. “Is Delphalyn still asleep?”
“For now. I was going to wake her soon.”
“Let her sleep. I have some bad news and I would rather discuss it with you first so we can determine what we should do from here.”
“What happened?”
Mako didn’t respond. Instead, he got out of the cart and pulled it to the small sea rock corral.
Talori helped put the cart away and fed Triton, the hippocampus her father used in his travels. She stroked the animal’s long face and spoke quiet, soothing words. Her mother had once told her about horses, a sort of land hippocampus that humans rode as transportation. Talori couldn’t imagine a hippocampus with four legs and a tail as silky as its mane. She was rather fond of Triton. His large green eyes were expressive and intelligent. He had a powerful body, and his neck crested with a flowing mane. Pearly fur gave way to iridescent white scales, dancing with rainbows of color as the light touched them. When she finished, she saw her father floating with his head low, one hand on their pillow-basalt-and-sea-rock home. She swam behind him and said gently, “Whatever has happened, I’m sure we can work it out. But first you need to tell me about it.”
As Mako described the business deal he’d entered with the slippery merman, Prospero, Talori felt her heart sink. Searing, consuming anger filled her. There had been many times Mako disappointed her with his poor business decisions. But this was different. He had completely ruined them. The more he talked, the less sure she was that they could make something work out.
“And now, I have nothing,” he finished. “He’s coming tomorrow to take the house and the business.” His voice broke. “He’s even going to take you girls.”
“What? How could you let this happen?” Her silver eyes flashed green with anger.
“Talori—”
“You promised me,” she interrupted. “You promised you would never go into business with him.”
“This isn’t how I wanted things to happen. I was thinking only of you girls and giving you the life you deserve.”
“We already had the life we deserved,” she snapped. “You treat us like royalty, even though we’re not. But now you’ve ruined everything!”
“Please forgive me, Talori,” Mako whispered, not lifting his head to look at her. “What are we going to do? We’ve both heard what happens to the mermaids Prospero takes. I can’t let him do that to you or Delphalyn.”
Talori tried to cool her anger long enough to think logically. “Delphalyn just started her apprenticeship with Marina a few days ago. Marina has already said she’s never had such a gifted apprentice before. Perhaps if we talk to Marina we can set it up to look like Delphalyn caused a damaging accident which would leave her in Marina’s debt. As you have nothing to pay her with, Delphalyn would have to be Marina’s slave until such a time as the debt was repaid. We will have to set up a false contract and make sure Marina has the same story we do, in case Prospero checks with her.”
“What about you?”
“There’s nothing to be done for me, Father,” Talori said, looking out over the coral beds from which their town received its name. Their bright colors and small, cheerful fish mocked the pain she felt. “I have no skills to put toward an apprenticeship and I am far past the ideal age to marry. Even if I wasn’t, no one here is interested in a plain mermaid like me.”
“You’re not plain, Talori. You are beautiful.”
She allowed herself a small grin. “And you are biased. In any case, having Delphalyn suddenly unavailable will be suspicious enough. If we’re both gone, Prospero is likely to discover your deception.”
“You could swim away.”
“I don’t swim from my problems, Father. I face them. Attempting to swim away has already cost me one family member.”
Mako put a firm hand on Talori’s shoulder. “You are not at fault for your mother’s death, Talori. You must stop blaming yourself.”
She didn’t answer. What her father told her did not change her feelings. She could never erase the memory or the guilt from her heart. If she hadn’t tried to swim away from her mother that day, the shark prowling near their home would never have chased her. And her mother wouldn’t have died trying to save her. She ignored the burning sensation in her eyes and turned to Mako. “I suggest we go speak to Marina immediately and then let Delphalyn know as gently as possible. She’s going to be very upset.”
“Before we do, I have something for you. I know it doesn’t make everything better,” he said handing her a small package wrapped in kelp. “But I thought of you when I saw this. The flower is a rose. They grow on land in human gardens. Perhaps, you can use it to think of me when....” Mako’s voice caught and he didn’t finish his statement.
As the kelp fell away from the exquisite comb, Talori gasped. Tiny seashells and pink pearls no bigger than pinheads swirled in the form of a flower Talori had never seen before. It was breathtaking. “Shouldn’t you give this to Delphalyn?” she asked. “This comb’s beauty would look far better with hers.”
“I got Delphalyn a comb. This comb, and all its beauty, belongs to you. Someday, you will see that you are not as plain as you believe.”
Talori doubted that. Everyone she knew considered her plain, at best, with her pale skin and silvery green scales. Hair the color of seafoam created an unruly halo of curls about her. A proper mermaid should have sleek waves and be brightly colored. Village gossips held her lack of beauty to be the fault of a human mother, though they’d never been able to prove it. Talori’s family moved to Coral Bay after her mother died. Delphalyn was too young to remember much about their mother and neither Mako nor Talori spoke of her much. Talori knew her mother had been human before meeting her father, but she remembered her as being a beautiful mermaid. If Talori was ugly, it wasn’t her mother’s fault. She cleared her thoughts. “Let’s go talk to Marina.”
Prospero arrived promptly at Mako’s shabby house the next morning. He sneered as he looked over the simple structure and the nearby gardens. There wasn’t much value to be seen. But then he remembered the two mermaids waiting for him. They would more than make up for the lack of monetary value. He pushed through the door and saw Mako with a plain mermaid. “I thought you had two daughters.”
“I do. But only one is still with me.” Mako glanced at the mermaid before continuing, “You see, the younger made a terrible mistake during her apprenticeship while I was gone. As I did not have the money to pay for the damage, her mistress has claimed her as a servant.”
Prospero narrowed his gaze. “How convenient.”
“You are welcome to investigate the claim if you don’t believe us,” the mermaid said, her silvery gaze daring him to question her.
“Perhaps I will. And you are?”
“Talori.”
“Ugly little guppy, aren’t you?” he jeered. She didn’t respond, nor did she seem at all bothered by the insult. “All right, Mako, say goodbye to your daughter and then get out.” He waited outside the door where he could hear any conversation inside.
“I really am sorry, Talori. I should have listened to you.”
“A little late to think of that now.”
“There’s still time. You can swim away, I won’t stop you. Perhaps you could get to the surface, find a human to take you in....”
“We’ve already discussed this. There’s no guarantee there’s anyone up there, and I’m not a fast enough swimmer. Even if I could get away, what would you do? Prospero wouldn’t let you get away with it.”
Sensible, although ugly. Perhaps there is a use for her, Prospero thought. When she and Mako exited the house, Prospero turned to see them hug. He grabbed Talori’s arm and began to pull her away. “You’ve said goodbye long enough.” To his surprise, she yanked out of his grip. “Don’t forget, twit, I own you now.”
“No one owns me,” she snapped. “I don’t care what the law says. I will follow you to resolve this problem, but touch me again and you will regret it.”
He was tempted to beat her then and there. But Talori had shown strength he hadn’t expected. Better to leave her alone, for now. “Get in the cart.” She did so without arguing. He clasped a rusty iron cuff around the base of her tail, the mark of a slave. Prospero turned to the now homeless merman, floating helplessly in front of the hut. “Goodbye, Mako. A pleasure doing business with you.”
After several hours, they arrived in Aquapolis in a grand neighborhood. Unlike the simple structures of Coral Bay, these homes were built with the finest materials. Crushed seashells sparkled in the walls. Doors were gilded with gold and other fine metals. Upon arriving at his house, he took Talori around back where several servants waited to take care of the tired hippocampi and fine cart. “You’ll sleep in there with the animals,” Prospero sneered. “Until I find a better use for you, you will work, eat, and sleep in here. You will only come into the house if and when I call you.”
Without waiting for a response, he swam down the lanes of Aquapolis. Wealthy mermaids smiled and twittered as he passed. Normally he would have paused to enjoy their company, but for now, he had business to attend to. Outside of town, he entered a large kelp forest. The first time he’d swum it had been unnerving, not that he would admit to that. He felt rather than saw the fish swimming nearby. Small sharks occasionally passed through the seaweed. The long blades of kelp swayed with the currents, brushing against his tail and body. The forest was dark and quiet. When he reached the end, a large dormant volcano rose before him. He knew the Shark dwelt within and swam to the entrance.
The guard frowned. “What are you doing here?”
“Now, Dune, is that any way to treat your cousin?”
“Answer the question, Prospero.”
“I have business with the Shark. Let me in like a good boy.”
Prospero found a trident in his face. “Watch yourself,” Dune growled. “I can make you disappear, and then who would take your place as the ocean’s biggest con artist?” For a tense moment, Prospero wondered if Dune would strike him. Then the trident lowered. “Go in.”
Prospero flicked his tail and swam into the dark tunnel. Eerie blue lamps glowed along the cavern walls as strange fish danced in their light. The tunnel widened into a spacious room lit with opulent chandeliers. Shells of all shapes and colors decorated the walls. Fine glass mosaics depicted scenes from the arena and a particularly large one showed a great shark with a merman in his mouth and a trident in his belly.
“What do you want, Prospero?” The deep voice came from the shadows.
“I have something that may be of some value to you. I’ve recently come into possession of a mermaid I have no use for.”
“How does one possess a mermaid?”
“Some merpeople just shouldn’t be allowed into business, we’ll leave it there.”
“In other words, you conned some member of her family and now you’re stuck with her. So what’s wrong with this mermaid? Not stupid enough for you?”
Prospero scowled. “Her intelligence isn’t the problem. Talori is ugly and has no skills or talents whatsoever. I have no place in my home for an ugly mermaid. I thought, given the current rumors, you might be interested in taking her off my hands.”
He could hear the distaste in his host’s voice. “What exactly do you think I could do with her?”
“There’s talk that you’re looking for a wife. I could make that search much easier for you.”
“At what cost?”
“Oh? I hadn’t really thought of that.”
“Don’t lie to me, Prospero,” the Shark spat. “If you want me to even consider taking this mermaid, you’d best be truthful with me.”
“Well, she may be ugly, but she seems healthy enough and bright. Didn’t even try to swim away when I came to claim her. But I have run into a string of bad luck so, it will be a substantial amount.” There was a pause and Prospero knew his host was weighing his options. “Of course, if you’re not interested, I know a variety of establishments looking for new recruits. I’m sure I could—”
“I’ll pay your price.”
Talori’s thoughts were jumbled as she followed Prospero’s servant to the meeting place. She’d gone from a poor merchant’s daughter to a slave overnight. The vast unfairness of her plight had burned deeper than the fear of what might happen when Prospero claimed her. She knew anything of value would be taken, so she’d hidden the rose comb under her curls. The way he looked at her made her shudder in revulsion. She wasn’t at all upset when he’d called her ugly. Perhaps if she was too ugly, he wouldn’t want her for his entertainment. And it was true. He hadn’t wanted her. At his soonest convenience, he had sold her to the Shark. She shivered at the thought. Some rumors said the Shark was a retired pirate and others claimed he was a merman of the court, banished for his ugliness and cruelty. He was said to be ruthless and cunning and to have killed dozens of his enemies. What would he do with her? She wished again that she had insisted on going with her father on his trips. They could have started Delphalyn’s apprenticeship early. She could have prevented all of this if she had only been there.
“We’re here,” the servant said as they stopped at a corner. “Sorry we’re late, Dune.”
“Quite all right. Are you Talori?” he asked, looking at her.
“Yes.”
“Come, we are expected at the minister’s for the wedding. You can go, Brine.”
Talori gaped at him. “Wedding?”
“Didn’t Prospero tell you? You are to be married to the Shark.”
“Don’t tell me that’s his actual name.”
“You might want to respect his desire for anonymity, considering your fate could have been much worse.”
Talori didn’t need to be reminded. “I suppose a slave shouldn’t ask questions.”
Dune bent and unclasped the iron cuff on Talori’s tail. “You’re not a slave anymore, Talori.” He led the way through the neighborhoods of Aquapolis. Despite her heartache, Talori was fascinated by the sights. She’d always dreamed of going to the capital. Fabulous gardens filled with exotic plants and lit by algae-covered lamps gave splashes of color to the city. Pet dolphins and porpoises played in stone corrals. Colorful fish darted between plants and rocks. The streets were crowded with merpeople and carts drawn by hippocampi.
They stopped at a small sea rock house and Dune knocked on the door. A grandfatherly merman opened it. “Ah, Dune, you’re running a bit late, you know. And you,” he continued turning to Talori, “are you a consenting party?”
Talori nodded. She didn’t trust herself not to blurt out that she hadn’t been given a choice.
“Mother, do hurry along. We still need a witness for this wedding.”
“Don’t rush me, Nereus.” A plump mermaid came into the room, fingering a pearl necklace about her neck. “So this is the bride? She hardly looks ready for a wedding.”
“I didn’t know,” Talori murmured.
The minister’s wife smiled. “Oh, angelfish, don’t you worry. I can help you.”
“Lovey, we are on a schedule.”
The mermaid turned to Nereus, her blue eyes suddenly flashing venomous green. “It is her wedding day and she deserves to feel like a princess, no matter what your silly schedule says.”
“As you wish, Vivian.”
Vivian smiled again and took Talori to another room. “I’m sorry, my dear. Mermen simply don’t understand, do they?”
“I suppose not.”
“Now such a frown will never do,” Vivian said, pulling a brush through Talori’s hair. When it caught, she asked, “Oh, what’s this?”
Talori pulled the rose comb out of her hair. “All that’s left from home. My father gave it to me before....” Her voice trailed away and tears burned her eyes.
“Oh my dear, don’t cry. The Shark is not a villain, no matter what the rumors might say. Things will work out.”
“I wish I believed that.”
“You lean on my faith then, angelfish. What do you think of yourself?”
Talori looked in the mirror. In a short time, Vivian had pulled Talori’s unruly curls into a stylish updo with the rose comb holding everything in place. A string of green pearls was draped through her hair, bringing out the color. “I look pretty.”
“Of course, you do.” Vivian placed a necklace of pearl and shell around Talori’s neck. “Green pearls bring luck and fortune to a marriage. Have faith, Talori.”
The wedding was very short, little more than a verbal agreement to swim through life together. The Shark never appeared. Instead, Dune stood in for him. Talori couldn’t help the bitterness creeping into her heart. How could they swim together when her husband hadn’t even bothered to show up for the wedding? Dune clasped a marriage cuff around her tail and though it was light, Talori felt pulled down by its weight more than the slave’s cuff Prospero had used. As they left the minister’s home, she wondered what would happen to her now.
“No, stop! Please!”
Talori gasped as she saw Mako swimming toward them.
“Who are you?” Dune demanded.
“I’m her father. Please, I beg you, I’ll pay any price. I’ll be slave to whoever owns her. Please just let me bring her home.”
“The wedding is over. You’re too late,” Dune replied, his tone harsh.
“Wedding?”
“You heard me correctly.” Dune’s voice softened as he continued, “I’m sorry, sir. There is nothing you can do now. Go home.”
Mako’s face crumpled as Dune helped Talori into a luxurious cart pulled by four lavender hippocampi. Her heart ached as she turned. “Please, Dune. Let me say goodbye to him at least.”
Dune nodded and Talori got out of the cart and swam to her father.
“I’m sorry,” Mako cried. “I’m so sorry I wasn’t fast enough.”
Talori tried to sound brave. “It’ll be all right. The Shark has married me. Prospero has no hold over me or you anymore.”
Mako paled. “The Shark?”
“Talori,” Dune called. “I’m sorry, but we do need to go.”
She nodded and ignored the stinging in her eyes. “Take care of yourself and Delphalyn. We’ll see each other again. I promise.”
The Shark flicked his tail as he waited for his bride to appear. Bride. He ground his teeth. Why did he get himself into this mess? He knew the answer. The idea of Prospero selling some poor mermaid into a fate worse than an arranged marriage sickened him. And in all honesty, he was lonely. While he certainly hadn’t started searching for a wife, he couldn’t deny wanting someone in his life. When Prospero mentioned rumors, the Shark knew his mother was behind them. He growled in frustration. Hadn’t that witch caused enough problems? He heard the sound of voices in the cavern entrance and swam to the dark corner he used the few times visitors came. He turned to see Dune lead an enchantingly beautiful mermaid into his home. This couldn’t be the ugly mermaid Prospero had sold him. “Who are you?” he demanded.
“My name is Talori, sir. What should I call you?”
“The Shark suits me fine.”
“No.”
“No?”
Talori glared at the darkened part of the room he sat in. For a moment, he almost thought she could see him. “I will not call you the Shark. I am your wife and will call you by your name.”
He considered for a moment. He could make something up. Then again, she had a point and that annoyed him. “And if I refuse?”
“I’ll call you the Slug instead.”
Feisty and beautiful, a lethal combination. “Rio.”
Talori blinked. “What?”
“You asked and I’ve told you. My name is Rio.”
She smirked. “Rio.”
“Is that amusing?”
“Hardly seems like a sharkly name.”
That they could agree on, though he wasn’t about to admit it. “Believe it or not, it’s true.”
“So, Rio, are you going to come out of hiding?”
He sputtered for a moment. “I am not hiding.”
“You wouldn’t attend your own wedding and now you’re sitting up in that dark corner. I realize I’m not the most beautiful mermaid in the ocean, but the least you could do is come down for a proper introduction.”
For a long moment, Rio couldn’t respond. Had she really just referred to herself as ugly? Perhaps he misunderstood her.
“Hello?”
“No one sees me, Talori. Not even you. I have many servants here and they will follow your orders as they would my own. I have secured a personal maid for you and she is waiting in your chambers. My butler will show you to the place. Tonight, you may take supper in your chambers as I’m sure you’d like time and space to think. Tomorrow I would appreciate it if you joined me in the dining hall for meals.”
“Will I see you then?”
“No. I live in darkness and that is where I must stay. Welcome home, Talori.” He paused, trying to think of the proper way to word his next comments. “I’m sure being sold into an arranged marriage is not what you ever wanted. But I do hope you’ll find happiness here with me.” He then left the room. He sought out the old lava flow which led to the surface. The sun was setting in a fiery display over the ocean. What had driven Prospero to say Talori was ugly? Skin the color of alabaster pitchers he’d found in shipwrecks and eyes like barracuda scales, beautiful and dangerous.
Rio looked out over the darkening ocean from his seat on the volcanic rocks. No one else knew about this little haven. As the moon rose above the distant waves, he tried to rein in his thoughts. He had to remain distant from Talori, no matter how tempting it might be to do otherwise. It would be safer for both of them, but especially for her.
The months crawled. There wasn’t much for Talori to do around Rio’s grand home. There were servants to do the chores. They lived close enough to a large sea market to make producing their own food unnecessary, so there were no gardens or animals for her to tend. She had never been particularly artistic, and even if she were Rio didn’t need her artistic skills. In fact, the longer she stayed, the more certain she was that Rio didn’t need her at all. It made her sad in a frustrating sort of way. As it was, Rio was attentive to her needs and listened at mealtimes when she spoke. He was always kind and frequently left gifts for her. But still she never saw him. They had their meals together, if one could call it that, and nothing else. Despite her best efforts to remain optimistic, she found herself homesick and wishing she had just one friend.
Rio seemed to notice as one evening he said, “You look upset, Talori. Is something troubling you?”
“Not exactly,” she replied. “There hasn’t been much for me to do here and I’m used to being more, well, useful.”
Rio didn’t respond for a moment. “Do you like it here?”
“Yes, you’ve been very kind and attentive. I just....” her voice trailed away. How could she explain her feelings to him?
“Come here, Talori.”
Nervous anticipation filled her. She swam into the dark corner Rio stayed in. Before her eyes could adjust enough to see anything, she felt a piece of kelp go around her face, covering her eyes. “Hey!”
“I am sorry, Talori. But I can’t risk you seeing me.”
A charge went through her arm as Rio took her hand. It reminded her of the time an electric eel had gotten into the corral, except the tingling she felt now was pleasant. Her heart beat faster and her thoughts seemed to dissolve into bubbles. “Where are you taking me?”
“A secret place. I’ll let you know how to find it again, but for now, you’re just going to have to trust me. Do you think you can do that?”
What little brain power she retained from Rio’s touch shouted no, but she heard her heart’s soft answer. “Yes.”
“Follow me.” He squeezed her hand and together they swam. She stayed close enough to feel the powerful surge of his tail. They went through a narrow passage, and at times, Rio had to let go of her hand to lead the way. He continued to speak to her until the passage widened and he was able to take her hand once again. The water warmed as they continued, and the pressure lessened. Suddenly she felt her torso break free of the water entirely. Warmth bathed her skin. Her hand reached up to the blindfold. Could it be? A hand covered hers. “Not yet. I know you’re anxious to see the surface, but allow me to go first.”
“You’re going to leave me here by myself?” she said, panicked.
“No, I’m just going to another part of the island. You’ll still be able to talk to me, but....”
“I won’t see you.” She couldn’t have kept the disappointment from her voice if she’d tried.
“It’s safer for you this way.” There was a pause. “You can take the blindfold off now.”
With trembling hands, Talori pulled the seaweed from her face. The bright sunlight dazzled her and it was several moments before her eyes adjusted. She gasped as her eyes took in the beauty of the outside world. “This is incredible!” For a while she practiced breathing, surprised that it seemed so natural. Her lungs filled with air as the wind rushed down her nose. She took a deep breath, inhaling the salty scent of the ocean and the crisp freshness of the air. She giggled. “I can’t believe I’m actually at the surface.”
“I come here often,” Rio said as Talori spun around in the water, her smile brighter than the sun itself. “It’s a quiet place to think.”
“What do you think about?” she asked, still taking in the sights around her.
“Everything. I think about my past, my future. Lately, I’ve been thinking frequently of you.”
Talori stopped and turned in the direction of Rio’s voice. “Me? Why would you think of a plain little mermaid like me?”
For what seemed forever he didn’t answer her. Finally, he asked, “Why do you say that about yourself?”
She looked away, unwilling to let him see her face as she replied, “I know I’m not very pretty. Everyone at Coral Bay was quick to let me know. I’m too pale, too curly-headed and far too opinionated. That’s why Prospero sold me to you, isn’t it?”
“Prospero’s opinion is the last you should base your beauty on. I’ve never seen anyone more beautiful than you.”
Talori blushed and mumbled, “You must not see very many mermaids.”
“More than you would think. I wish you could see yourself the way I see you.”
Her heart swelled. Maybe they could build a normal relationship. “Will I ever get to see you?”
There was a pause. When he answered, Talori could hear his frown. “No, Talori, I don’t think you will. It’s complicated, but believe me when I say it is truly safer for both of us that you not see me.”
“Why?”
“The story is too long to go into at the moment. If you keep watching the sky, the sun will set and then fill with millions of stars.”
“Stars?”
“Just watch the sky.”
They sat in silence for a long while. As stars began dancing in the sky, Talori watched in wonder. She’d never seen anything so breathtakingly lovely in her life. “I wish my father and sister could see this,” she sighed.
“You miss them, don’t you?”
“Very much.”
Rio sighed. “I can’t go with you to visit them. However, I can send you to Coral Bay for a few days if you’d like.”
“You would do that for me?”
“It’ll be a little while, I’ve got some business to take care of first.”
“Business? So you’re not a retired pirate?” She blushed as she realized what she’d said.
Rio laughed. “Is that what they’re saying now? Funny how quickly people forget noble families when they stop being newsworthy.”
“Noble?”
Ignoring her question, he continued, “No, I’m not retired and I’m not necessarily a pirate. Granted, most of my trading is done above surface with the humans who sail these waters and I can’t be sure they’re all honest. But I try to do business with good people and merpeople. Prospero is my one exception and that’s a long story in and of itself. But, enough of that. If you’d like to visit home, I can arrange it.”
“Oh, Rio, that would mean so much to me.”
“Consider it done then.”
Before she knew it, the blindfold was once again tied snugly around her face. She felt Rio’s hands resting on her shoulders and she leaned against him. Talori closed her eyes and imagined things were different. That she could be with him without the blindfold. That he would trust her with whatever secret kept him hidden.
Rio sighed as though he sensed her thoughts. He kissed the top of her head, his breath warm on her scalp. “Let’s go home.”
In the weeks before she left, Talori tried to learn more about her mysterious husband. But it seemed there was little to learn. Eventually her curiosity gave way, and she reveled in the attention he paid her. Things she wished for in conversation became reality. While she never saw him, she saw tokens of his affection on a daily basis. She even stopped thinking of herself as the plain, little mermaid from Coral Bay. He came to see her off, staying in the shadows where she couldn’t see him. As her maid put things in the carriage, Rio requested she not give his real name to anyone, not even her father. She agreed, though she still didn’t understand the reasons. “I’ll miss you,” she said.
“Probably not as much as I’ll miss you,” he teased. “When you return, we’ll go up to the surface again. Perhaps then I can give you some answers.”
When she arrived in Coral Bay, Mako was overjoyed to see her. But he worked often and his time with her was short. He’d joined the business team selling whelks and abalone along the countryside Marina had told him about. He was living in a small hut near Marina’s home, but it was a temporary situation. He planned to marry Marina once he had more to offer than just his love. It thrilled Talori to see her father looking so happy and carefree. There was true promise for his future. When he explained how he had followed Prospero once he was sure the merman wouldn’t see him and arrived too late to stop the wedding and bring her home, he begged her to forgive him.
“Perhaps, Father, this is meant to be.”
“He treats you well, doesn’t he?” Mako asked, worry showing in his eyes. “We can find a way to free you. I’ll help you escape.”
Talori took his hand. “Please don’t worry about me. I have never been so happy in all my life. The Shark is good to me.”
“You don’t know his name either?” When she hesitated, Mako frowned. “Oh, I see. He must have his reasons, I suppose. I won’t ask you anymore. I’m glad he treats you like a princess. It’s all I ever wanted for you.”
Delphalyn was less kind. Jealousy over Talori’s new home and situation had changed her. She knew some of it wasn’t Delphalyn’s fault. Her sister had always been easily swayed by the opinions of others, and it seemed the village had filled in the missing details with rumors of their own, permanently tarnishing her reputation among them. But it hurt to have her sister treat her so poorly. “That marriage cuff looks like it was meant for a princess, not a poor merchant’s daughter,” she sniffed the morning Talori planned to return to Aquapolis.
“I suppose so. I don’t think the Shark necessarily intended to marry a poor mermaid.”
“What does he look like?” Delphalyn asked, curiosity momentarily overcoming her sour attitude. “Is he dreadfully ugly?”
Talori hesitated. “I don’t know what he looks like. No one sees the Shark.”
“What? Are you telling me you haven’t even seen your husband? How do you know he’s not a monster?”
“What you look like isn’t what makes you a monster, Delphalyn. It’s what’s on the inside. I know his heart is good. He has treated me with as much love and respect that could be expected from an arranged marriage.”
“I know how you must feel,” Delphalyn said with feigned sympathy as she put an arm around Talori’s shoulder, “but be honest with yourself. Why would he hide himself from you if he had no secrets?”
Talori pushed her away. “You don’t understand the situation, Delphalyn.”
“Do you?”
It was mid-afternoon when the carriage pulled up to the Shark’s cavern home. Talori felt emotionally spent. The entire ride she’d agonized over her sister’s words. While she knew she shouldn’t take them to heart, the fact remained she hadn’t seen the Shark. Rio could be the monster her sister claimed, for all she knew. She didn’t want to believe it. He had to have a good reason to be so secretive. But what was it?
She went to her chambers and looked out the window. Her room looked over the capital city. Bioluminescent lamps glowed over the streets, while sunlight glimmered on the shell-encrusted buildings. The easy currents rippled through, causing kelp beds to sway. Flashing scales as fish swam past sparkled like the crushed seashells on the city buildings. Talori sighed and picked up a new book Rio must have left for her. Her mouth lifted in half a smile. She’d never had much reading material at home, usually old newsletters made from seaweed and lost dolphin ads scrawled on bits of sea rock or kelp. These books exuded quality. Thin pages from pressed kelp bound with smoothed fish skins. The ink never faded or smeared, which fascinated her the first few times she’d held one of her new books. Rio had told her about a merman who discovered the squid ink solution. Rio. Maybe he could help her sort through her muddled feelings. He might even take her to the surface again. After all, he had promised to do so before she left.
Talori searched the house and when Rio wasn’t found, decided to go to the surface on her own. Perhaps she could find him there. If she did, maybe she could catch a glimpse of him and put her fears to rest. She turned with a resolute flick of her tail to the dining hall and swam through the hidden door into the extinct lava flow. Her heart thundered in her ears as she saw the tunnel for the first time. How had Rio ever had the courage to follow this to the end?
Strange creatures glowed around her, the only light in the pitch darkness. Something brushed past her and she swallowed a squeal. Slowly light filtered through the water and she could see the sun’s distortion becoming clearer. She swam as quietly as she could, hoping Rio wouldn’t hear her if he was sitting on the volcanic rocks. Talori saw the outline of a merman ahead of her as she came closer to the surface. She paused for a moment. Even through the water’s distortion, she knew this was no monster. Determined not to alert him to her presence, Talori moved slowly. Her eyes widened as she broke the surface. The evening sun shone on skin as dark as hers was pale while his scales shimmered deep green and bronze. He was broad and muscular, his shaggy hair black with a hint of silver. “Rio?” she breathed.
He turned to her, and for a moment time stood still. Amber eyes flecked with green in a handsome face Talori could never have imagined. “Talori? No, get away from here! I told you never to see me.”
“But, Rio—”
“GO!” he bellowed, his voice harsh and gravelly. Nothing like she normally heard. She watched in horror as he convulsed on the rocks. Slate gray replaced the green scales and the flukes of his tail hardened and elongated. Strange growls came from him. “Talori, go now!” he cried.
“What’s happening?”
“For your life, go!” He looked at her, wild cruelty in his darkening eyes. “Please, go.” The words came out as a menacing whisper.
Talori spun around to flee down the narrow tunnel. Behind her she could hear a monster thrashing about. She screamed as something grabbed at her fins. At one point she saw a side tunnel and turned into it. Pressing herself against the side and hardly daring to breathe, she watched as Rio passed by. Somehow in looking at him, she had caused him to become the monster his alias implied. Gray sharkskin replaced his colorful scales and appeared in patches over the rest of his body. While she hadn’t seen much of his face as he swam past, she’d seen the teeth. Large, deadly shark’s teeth brought flashbacks from the day her mother died. For a brief moment, she’d been married to a merman as handsome as he was kind. Now he was changed. Tears filled her eyes. “What will I do now?” She followed the new tunnel until she came out into the open ocean. A lone house, built from the shell of a giant clam, stood before her.
“I wondered when I would see you,” a feminine voice said.
“Who’s there?” Talori asked, trying to locate the speaker.
“A friend. You won’t be able to see me, dear. Like the Shark, I value my anonymity.”
“You know Rio?”
“Quite well. He is my son.”
“What happened to him?”
“Just what I warned him would happen. He never did listen well.”
“This is all my fault. What can I do?”
There was silence. An invisible hand took Talori’s. When she squealed, the voice said, “Do not be alarmed. But if we are to discuss this, it would be best to do so inside.” Talori followed her invisible hostess inside the clam shell. The water around her reeked of kelp and something she couldn’t identify. Strange jars lined shelves along the walls. In the center of the home, a volcanic vent glowed. “You’re a, a....”
“Witch?” the voice supplied. “Yes, the name fits. Now, in order to understand what happened, you need to accept two facts. First, not all things can be explained and second, I am a witch. Try to stay on my good side.”
Talori’s skin prickled. “Go on.”
Bottles and jars floated through the water while ingredients were poured into a large abalone shell. “I suppose in the strictest sense of the word, what is happening to Rio is my fault. When he was a young man, I placed a curse on him. Accidentally, of course.”
“How do you accidentally put a curse on someone?” Talori demanded.
“Would you share his fate?”
“If it meant we could be together, yes,” she replied, surprised by her resolve.
“An interesting idea, could be amusing. But that’s not why I brought you here. It truly was an accident. I suppose when you saw him, you did not see the scars.”
Scars? Talori thought. Now that it had been mentioned, she did remember a thin stripe around Rio’s torso.
“Let me help you. Our family was once quite important. The king is my cousin, believe it or not. And Rio, like many mermen of the court, often fought in the arena. A strong and agile merman like himself easily bested most of the poor creatures brought in. But one day everything changed. A great shark released into the arena quickly showed Rio what it meant to be outmatched.”
Talori thought of the mosaic at home. The merman in the shark’s mouth had been Rio? Why hadn’t he ever told her?
“The beast would have killed Rio, and I had to act quickly. I summoned a spell, but in my haste I didn’t phrase things properly, and instead of it hitting the shark and making it docile, it hit Rio. It was some time before I realized the extent of my mistake.”
“Why didn’t you try to undo it?”
“Frankly, at the time I didn’t think it mattered. Others came into the arena and killed the shark, and I brought Rio here, sure I would soon bury my son. His injuries were extensive and the magic did not help. Sharkskin appeared over his scales. In some way, the curse merged him with the shark, but only partly so. And I didn’t see him becoming more like a predator. In fact, the sharkskin began sloughing away as he healed. When it became clear Rio would recover, I turned myself invisible to cheat the spell’s effects. Had we seen each other, the curse would have come to fruition with no way for me to save him.”
“But I don’t understand how you being invisible prevented that. Wouldn’t it have made more sense to turn him invisible?”
Rio’s mother laughed. “Magic doesn’t work on logic, Talori. I can’t even explain how I realized the curse’s trigger would be someone making eye contact with him. To go back to my story, I continued to care for him. Naturally, he was furious when he learned what had happened. He forbade me from ever seeing him again. Made things very difficult for me, as news of my being a witch had me banished from the king’s court. Anyway, he moved into the dead volcano and built the reputation of the Shark, distancing himself from his past and trying to prevent his future.”
“This is all well and good, but how do I undo this? He’s a monster now.”
“Are you afraid of him?”
Talori hesitated only for a moment. “No.”
“It does not take long to fall in love, does it?” Talori heard a chuckle, and then Rio’s mother said, “This is going to require courage. You must go back to Rio’s cavern. He is not fully a shark, nor will he be if you act quickly. Take this.” A bottle was placed in Talori’s hands. “You must follow these directions precisely. It will be dangerous.”
“Whatever it takes, I’ll do it.”
“Do not interrupt. You will need Rio’s strongest guards to help you bind him. Most of the spell is concentrated in the scars on Rio’s body. Even in his transformed state, you will be able to see them. This ointment must be massaged in. It has magical properties and will neutralize the curse, though it will take time.”
“Why would he need to be bound?”
“Have you ever touched sharkskin, Talori? There is a reason it is used for armor. It is tough and barbed. You will bleed. I don’t think I need to explain to you what happens when a shark smells blood.”
Talori shuddered. “No.”
“Use the entire bottle.”
“And you’re sure this will undo the curse?” Talori asked.
“You don’t believe me?”
“It just seems a little, I don’t know, simple.”
“Hmph. Humans tell stories in which all it takes is a kiss. Don’t talk to me about simplicity. Besides, you’re sure to change your mind when you get started. One last thing, Talori. This kind of thing only works when there is deep abiding love felt between the cursed and the rescuer. A once-in-a-lifetime kind of love. Had I tried, it would have killed him.”
“Who could love him more than you? You’re his mother.”
“And a witch. Witches learned long ago to guard our hearts from love. Heartbreak is a dangerous thing, and loved ones can be used against you. It is better for us to be distant, some might even say cold. Be sure you know your heart before you get started. Now go, you have little time.”
Dune and the other guards were waiting in the hall when Talori swam through the entrance. “Dune, I need your help.”
“Where were you?”
“I met the Shark’s mother and she’s given me a solution.”
“And you trust her? It’s her fault he’s like this.”
“I know, but we have no other choice.”
Dune frowned. “She’s a witch.”
“Do you have a better idea?” When he didn’t respond she said, “I need you to come with me and bring someone else who is strong enough to hold him down.”
“Very well.” Dune motioned for one of the other guards to follow. He led the way to Rio’s room. “Are you sure about this?” he asked.
“As sure as I can be.”
“I hope it works.” He reached for the doorknob, but Talori stopped him.
“I’ll go in first. You come in after me.” With her head high, she opened the door. Rio turned to her with a growl. His handsome face had been replaced by a grotesque hybrid of shark and man. “Rio?”
“What are you doing here?” he snarled. “Come to stare at the monster you’ve created?”
“No, I’m here to help you.”
“Leave me be.”
She swam closer, ignoring the instinctive desire to flee. “I can’t leave, Rio. I’m your wife. I belong here with you.”
He stopped pacing and looked at her. His eyes were dark and soulless. When he spoke, he almost sounded like himself. “Talori, there is nothing you can do. Leave me. I won’t blame you.”
“But you would, and I would never forgive myself.” She moved until she floated directly in front of him, close enough to reach out and touch him. “I need you to trust me, Rio.”
“You didn’t trust me.” The growl in his voice returned.
“I should have, and I’m sorry. Let me help you now and this can all be a bad memory. We could be a normal couple, explore the surface together without you hiding in the shadows. Let me bring you into the light.” She placed a gentle hand on his cheek. “Please, Rio.”
He bared his teeth and snapped, but Dune and the other guard pulled him down. “What is this?” he roared.
“I wouldn’t have them do it if it wasn’t necessary,” Talori soothed. “Just relax.” She poured a glob of ointment onto her hands. It warmed in them and seemed to glow in the dim light of the chamber. Please, Poseidon, let this work, she prayed. She then rubbed it down along the length of the scars.
Her hands burned, and Rio screamed in agony. “Are you trying to kill me?”
Talori paused. Had she been tricked? But when she glanced at the area she’d worked on, she saw a glimmer of green. She rubbed a little more, and a barbed piece of sharkskin fell away, revealing an emerald scale. Maybe it was working.
“Talori, what are we going to do?” Dune asked as Rio struggled to free himself. “I can let you escape.”
“No. It’s working! She said it might be slow, but look. I’m going to finish. Please, just keep him down.” She poured another glob into her hand. The ointment burned, mingling with her blood as her hands scraped against the sharkskin. Rio’s cries became more animal and desperate. He nearly escaped as the two guards turned him over. She bit back sobs as he bellowed in outrage. “Please, Rio, just a little while longer and this will all be over.”
“It’s over now.” Rio freed an arm and flung the ointment bottle against the wall.
“No!” She swam over to the shattered pieces. Clumps of ointment clung to it and she cried in despair. Before she could think, she felt herself slammed against the wall.
“What did you think you were doing?” Rio demanded, his monstrous face a breath away from her.
She choked. “Rio, please, it was helping.”
“It won’t matter. You won’t live to see another day,” he growled, his jagged shark’s teeth bared.
“No, Rio, please!”
He bellowed again as a trident pierced his shoulder.
“Go, Talori!” Dune shouted, pinning Rio to the wall.
“Dune, no! Don’t kill him! Just hold him down.” Talori picked up the shards of glass, wiping as much of the ointment as she could salvage on to her hands. “I hope this is enough.” She worked it into the last bit of the scar tissue as Rio became more still. When she finished, she took strips of bandage and wrapped the wound on Rio’s shoulder. Her husband continued to grow quieter as she worked until he finally stopped moving at all. “Release him, Dune.”
“He’s still a monster.”
Her heart threatening to break within her, Talori said, “I know. But right now he isn’t a threat. Release him.”
Dune frowned but let go of Rio, who slumped to the floor.
“Help me get him to the bed and then you can go.”
“Talori, this isn’t a good idea. What if it’s just an act?”
“Please, Dune,” she begged. “I can’t do it by myself.”
The other guard and Dune lifted Rio’s limp body and place him on the clam shell bed. The two left and Talori sat on the side of the bed next to Rio. Along the scar, his green and bronze scales glimmered under the gray sharkskin. Nothing else had changed. Rio lay with his eyes closed, not moving. His breathing slowed and sounded more labored as she waited for some change. Some sign that she’d done things right. “I’m sorry,” Talori sobbed. “I followed the directions just as your mother said to. Please get better. I’ve already lost my mother. My sister resents me. I couldn’t bear to lose you too. You’ve given me so much and I need you here. I don’t understand why it stopped working.”
This kind of thing only works when there is deep abiding love felt between the cursed and the rescuer.
Talori’s heart shattered further as the words echoed in her memory. “Oh. Love was missing. I know I love you with all my heart, but....” She sighed. “I should have known you could never love an ugly mermaid like me. It was foolish of me to think I could save you. I’m sorry.” Exhausted, Talori allowed herself to slip from her seat to the stone floor. She hardly felt its cold surface. Pain like nothing she had ever felt radiated from her heart outward. She’d always thought it was an old fish tale that mermaids could die of a broken heart. Was that what was happening to her? The ocean pressure seemed to build around her, threatening to crush her with its weight. Her gills ached with the strain of breathing. Just as she was about to lose consciousness, a hand took hers.
“I wish you wouldn’t say that about yourself, Talori. There is nothing ugly about you.”
The pain eased and hope blossomed within her. “Rio?” She looked up to see him smiling down at her, looking as handsome as he had the first time she’d seen him.
His smile broadened, and he scooped her into his arms. “Come on, love. It wouldn’t do for both of us to die of a broken heart. Bit melodramatic, don’t you think?”
A weak laugh bubbled from her as he laid her gently on the bed. He wrapped her hands in bandages and then held her close. “Oh, Talori,” he sighed. “My beautiful, wonderful Talori. What would I do without you?”
She leaned against him. “I don’t want to imagine.”
“Me neither. Are you feeling up to a swim to the surface? I can carry you if you’re too weak.”
Talori giggled. “After the ordeal you’ve been through, you’re worried about me making it?”
He led her to the lava flow and together they swam up to the ocean’s surface. Stars glittered across the sky as the moon glowed silver above the waves. Talori reveled in the sensation of being held in Rio’s arms with no secrets between them. His voice flowed over her. “In case I haven’t made it quite clear, I love you, Talori.”
She turned to him, her silver eyes glowing with joy. “I love you too.”
Rio pushed a stray wisp of hair behind Talori’s ear. “Will you marry me?”
“We’re already married, Rio. Or did you forget?” Talori teased.
“Believe me, I haven’t forgotten,” he replied, the low timbre of his voice sending shivers through her. “But you deserve better than a proxy wedding. I’m sure my mother would be willing to arrange all the details, if it’s something you wanted. No doubt she’s skulking around somewhere. We can invite your family to come. Marry me, Talori. Marry me in the light instead of the shadows.”
Wrapping her arms around Rio’s neck, she smiled. “Very well. I will marry you again. Whenever and wherever you want.”
In the soft moonlight, the couple pledged their love to one another in a promise that would never end.

Reviving the Sword

Alastriona glanced up at the sun over the clearing where they’d spent the night. It was well past time to get on the road. Her heart filled with anticipation—maybe today would be the day. The centaur tossed her bag over her shoulder. The red markings on her back glowed in the late morning light. Wisps of her red tail flowed in the gentle breeze as she bent over and grabbed Kingdom Defender.
“The sword fits you.” Arnhyder, Alastriona’s traveling companion, stretched his back legs. “The jewel matches your eyes. When you picked it up, it seemed to come to life.”
Alastriona stared at the gryphon. “Really?”
Arnhyder blinked his solemn, dark eyes and ruffled his feathers. “Why would I lie to you?”
She shrugged, a delicate action for a centaur. “No one’s ever said that before.”
Watching Arnhyder extend his wings and take off, Alastriona strapped the sword behind her back and settled into a traveling gallop. Had the sword begun to come alive? Would what she had longed for and searched for over mountains, through plains, and even endured wetlands for finally happen? A memory blossomed of the glowing emerald stone in the hilt of the sword as her father ran a cleaning cloth over the blade.
“Alas.” Papa used his pet name for Alastriona. “One day, Kingdom Defender will be yours. She will empower you with courage and foresight.”
Alastriona reached her small hand toward the blade. Her father moved the sword from her reach.
“No, Alas. Never touch its blade. The oils in your skin will ruin the ripples of color. That is why I clean it every evening.”
Alastriona admired the dark blade that shimmered with a rainbow of hues. Her eyes landed back on the glowing, green gem at its hilt.
“How, Papa? How will I bring Kingdom Defender to life?”
“You’ll figure it out, Alas. When it’s time, the sword will speak to you.”
The memory faded. Alastriona laid her hand reverently on the hilt at her shoulder and sighed. Thirty-five rings had formed in the trees of the forest since her uncle had placed the sword in her hands. The stone still remained dull and no power filled the centaur.
They covered many miles despite their late start. As the sun set, Alastriona sat near the fire and watched the rotating spit holding her fish. Arnhyder had eaten his fill already. She preferred to cook her meat.
“Where’s home for you, Arnhyder?”
“In the mountains.”
She nodded. “Do you miss it?”
The gryphon offered his strange shrug. “Family’s still there, but it was time for me to stretch my wings and explore.”
The fire popped, releasing a cedar scent.
“What about you?” Arnhyder asked.
Alastriona remembered home: the fire, the forest, and the other centaurs, father, uncle, and the fun they had together. She shook her head.
“I don’t have a home.”
Arnhyder’s eye sparkled in the firelight. His brow seemed to arch.
“My family was slain. I was the only survivor. There’s nothing left for me there. I run to avoid the memories. Okay?” Her words were harsh, but she didn’t care. The pain still raked across her soul like claws across bare skin.
“I’m sorry,” Arnhyder said.
The next day the terrain gradually changed from flatlands, to rolling hills, to sparsely populated woods. By the time Alastriona was ready for the midday meal, Arnhyder had moved on ahead. Alastriona was wondering how she would get his attention, when he returned and landed beside her.
“We’ve found some company,” he said. “It appears that a group of humans have an elf surrounded. Shall we even the odds?”
His voice held a hint of excitement. Alastriona wondered if it had anything to do with the anticipation of a fight.
“Humans have never been friends.” The memories of human offenses marched through her mind like a parade of migrating geese. She drew Kingdom Defender.
Arnhyder nodded and took off with Alastriona right behind him. She galloped through the woods until she saw the glade ahead of her, then slowed so her hooves wouldn’t echo through the ground and give her away.
Leaving the last tree behind her, she took in the scene. Five humans surrounded a single female elf. Three more humans lay on the ground unmoving. Alastriona grinned. The elf had made her attackers pay. As she watched, a sixth man climbed the rock the elf kept at her back so no one would attack her from behind. Just as the man moved to jump onto his enemy, Arnhyder swooped down and grabbed him. As the gryphon’s talons sank in, the man shrieked, alerting the others to their presence.
“Gryphon!” one man called.
The two women closest to Alastriona replaced their blades with bows and arrows. Before the first could let loose her shaft, Kingdom Defender silenced her. Alastriona distracted the other’s aim when she came crashing down on her.
She turned as she felt hands upon her back. A red-bearded man with wild green eyes clung to her waist. Her sword’s length prevented her from using it against him. His hands clawed at her as his feet gained footage around her girth. Before long he would be securely mounted on her back with her hair in his hands to steer her. She reared, trying to unseat the man. As she came down, she heard his cry. Spinning around, she felt him slip from her back. She rose to bring her hooves to bear, only to see the blood oozing from him. Alastriona crashed back down and spun to attack the next person.
“Easy, girl,” Arnhyder said. “They’re all gone. Our friend here just saved your hide.”
The elf was slender with dark skin and short brown hair; she didn’t look like any elf Alastriona had seen. The elf’s brown, almond-shaped eyes looked up at the centaur. The intensity of battle fury still burned in them.
Alastriona smiled. “Thank you.”
The elf bowed, displaying formality and tradition.
“The pleasure was mine. I have never had the privilege of seeing a gryphon and a centaur in battle.”
“It looked like you could use some help,” Arnhyder said. “I always say, ‘live for the adventure.’”
“If you want adventure, then stay with me. It seems to follow me around, but here, I am forgetting my manners.” Again, she bowed. “Sagishi Erufu at your service.”
“Arnhyder Greif at yours.” The gryphon inclined his head to the ground.
“Alastriona Álago.” The centaur shifted her arm to rest at her waist and bent over it, providing her family name in the traditional response the elf required.
As she straightened, she tossed her red hair over her shoulders and bent down to wipe her blade clean on the grass. The sun caught the lines of the folded metal and turned them into glistening rainbows.
“That is an amazing sword.” Sagishi’s eyes roamed over Kingdom Defender as only one who admires swords would. “It seems to have a mind of its own. While you were wielding it in battle, it almost glowed.”
Alastriona gazed deep into the elf’s brown eyes. Sagishi’s eyebrow rose and disappeared behind the hair that framed her face.
“Did I offend you?” the elf asked.
Alastriona stood and repositioned her sword into its scabbard.
“No. It’s just that both of you have now implied that my sword has some kind of hidden life. I haven’t sensed anything of the sort with Kingdom Defender.”
Sagishi shrugged. “I’m simply stating what I saw. Is it of elven make? I seem to recall seeing a similar sword in action once, long ago.”
Alastriona shook her head. “I don’t know. It’s possible, I suppose. It has been in my family for generations, passed on from father to son.” She paused and placed a hand on the hilt.
“Yet, you are not a son.” Sagishi stated the obvious, her tone neutral.
“No.” Bitterness choked the word. “My father did not have a son. His life was cut off too soon.”
Alastriona looked to the grass and allowed her hair to hide the tears that glistened in her eyes.
“And yet, your father has a daughter to be proud of. A warrior in all senses of the word. You rescued me.”
“You’re a fine centaur. You do the Álago family proud,” Arnhyder agreed.
Alastriona smiled. Leave it to the gryphon to cheer her up.
“You must be hungry and need a rest after that battle. My camp is back behind those rocks over there. I have food and mead,” Sagishi said.
“Honey mead of the elves?” Arnhyder’s eyes brightened with excitement.
“None other.” Sagishi moved to lead the way.
Alastriona caught a shift in the elf’s eyes, but Arnhyder was already in conversation with Sagishi as if they had known each other all their lives. As Alastriona followed, she considered the elf’s words. Was Kingdom Defender of elven make? She tried to search her memory for any hint of its origin, but nothing came to mind. A stray memory tickled at the back of her mind, but no amount of trying would bring it forward. Unease settled over her.
During their meal of dried fish, fresh berries, and mead, Alastriona tried to set aside her feelings. The food satisfied her hunger, and the mead quenched her thirst. It also seemed to loosen Arnhyder’s tongue.
“Sagishi, where are you from?”
The elf repositioned her weight on the box where she sat and raised her dainty face to look at him. “I’m from far away. I have wandered from home for many years. A catastrophe took my home and family. Ever since, I have not called any place home.”
“I’m sorry.” Arnhyder took a bite of fish.
Alastriona didn’t think she heard the same compassion in his tone as when he had said those words to her. She tried to push the feeling aside. After all, Sagishi had the same experience she had.
“I left home for adventure.” The gryphon glanced up. “Look where it has gotten me—two pretty girls.”
Sagishi rolled her eyes. “I’ve seen far too many years to be called a young woman.”
Alastriona squinted. She saw many harrowing experiences in the elf’s eyes.
“How old are you?” She placed her hand over her mouth as she realized she had spoken her thought aloud.
Sagishi laughed, a light tinkling sound like a babbling brook. “I’m two-hundred-fifty years old. Young enough to travel the world, and old enough to know there’s more to life than traveling.” A wistfulness filled her voice.
Alastriona was almost sad she had asked. Arnhyder, on the other hand, plowed straight ahead.
“What’s wrong with traveling? You can go where you like with no one to tell you what to do!”
Again Sagishi laughed, but Alastriona sensed that the laughter covered up a deep longing or sadness. The centaur understood that feeling all too well.
“Arnhyder, how would you feel about traveling if the home you loved was destroyed—utterly and beyond any hope of rebuilding?” Bitterness now colored the elf’s voice, turning it hard and cold. “Not only the place, but all the people, gone in one day. People who should have lived at least three of your lifespans, cut off in their prime. And it all could have been stopped. If they would’ve been warned....”
A bird sang its song far above them. Alastriona wanted to silence it. Sagishi’s words had opened her own wounds. Warned, she thought. There had been no warning for Papa, Uncle, or the others. Who would have warned us?
The elf stood. “I am sorry. I let the mead do my talking. There are still several more shadow lengths before the sun goes down. Enough time to move through these human-infested areas.”
Arnhyder repositioned his back feet. “Alastriona, what would you say to traveling with her? She promised adventure, and I think the greater our number, the safer we’ll all be.”
Alastriona looked at her traveling partner. Would another person make that much difference? She shrugged.
“If you don’t mind, I don’t.”
“Then it’s settled. Will you allow us to join you, Sagishi?”
The elf paused in gathering her things. She bowed. “I’d be honored to have such fine warriors accompany me.”
The rest of the day passed without any problems. They skirted the human habitats and avoided the few hunting parties and farms they saw. Arnhyder’s normal, easygoing temperament put both the elf and the centaur at ease. Nightfall found them on the edge of a plain. The sunset filled the sky, reflected in the grasses blowing in the slight wind.
“Nothing ahead as far as I can see.” Arnhyder landed beside Alastriona. “The plain is just that—plain.”
Sagishi groaned. “Please, don’t start again with your terrible puns.”
Alastriona hid a smile. Arnhyder had regaled them all afternoon with his humor. She really didn’t mind. It made the passage of time easier, but Sagishi had tired of it quickly.
“We’ll camp over there.” The elf pointed to a grove of trees off to the east. “I’ll set up my tent. Arnhyder, go find us some food for the night. Alastriona, go get firewood.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.” Arnhyder dipped his head in a mock bow.
Sagishi’s eyes turned dark, and she scowled at him. “If you were anything but a gryphon, you would feel the wrath of an elf.”
Arnhyder cocked his head and opened his beak. “Remember, I live for adventure. Come try.” No malice filled his voice.
“Enough, you two.” Alastriona stepped between them. “Arnhyder, please don’t antagonize her. I’ll go search for some wood.” She set her pack on the ground, repositioned Kingdom Defender, and walked off, leaving the two still squabbling.
The grove wound back into the depression between two hills, creating a wedge. Alastriona wondered if it would be better to camp here, where they had their backs to a wall, or out where Sagishi had chosen, where they could see someone approaching. Alastriona shrugged. She was in a group now. She could rely on her companions and their past experiences.
Grass grew thick between the trees, carpeting the ground. Alastriona longed to lie down and let the cool blades soothe her travel weariness. Instead, she shook her head and continued to look for firewood. Strangely, none lay on the ground. She wandered farther into the grove of trees. They towered above her, hinting of age and wisdom.
Wisdom. A sigh escaped her. Will I ever unlock the wisdom and foresight held within my sword? Or has it been lost forever?
A breeze whispered through the branches above her head. She looked up and blinked as the greens and yellows of the oaks above her disappeared. In their place fire rained down from the sky, great rocks burning as they fell. No longer was she in the grove. She was in the forest of her childhood. Flames engulfed the forest. Panic ensued. Other centaurs older, taller than her ran ahead of her.
“Alas,” her father called, “run for the lake.”
She galloped, but couldn’t seem to go as fast as the others. Looking down, she saw an image of herself as a young girl. Not comprehending, but feeling the heat from the conflagration, she ran as fast as her little legs would go. Blood pounded in her ears while flames sprang up around her. Her back began to burn. The pain pushed her ever faster. At last, the cooling water lapped at her hooves and made its way up to her waist. The burning on her back ceased.
Looking around, she found her family. They huddled together and watched their home burn.
Alastriona blinked. The night sky blazed with stars. Gazing around, she saw the grove behind her. The ground sloped upward. How did I get here? She spread her fingers, running them through the cool green grass. Turning around, she headed back down the hill. She puzzled over the strangeness of what had happened. She had never sleepwalked; this dream was different. It was more of a memory than a dream.
When she arrived back at the grove, extreme exhaustion overtook her. She unsheathed Kingdom Defender. A soft glow filled the path, grass, and leaves with a green hue. Alastriona traveled back toward her companions.
“Alastriona!” Arnhyder called. “Come have dinner. Aren’t you hungry?”
Alastriona blinked. The gryphon and elf sat around a fire.
Sagishi stood and motioned to the centaur. “Alastriona. Come, what took you so long? I went ahead and found some wood for our fire.”
Standing with the comforting warmth of her sword in her hand, Alastriona stared around her. How much time had passed?
Sagishi walked toward her.
“Alastriona? Come to your senses. What is wrong with you?”
“I don’t know. I went to find wood. Where did you get the wood?”
Sagishi pointed off to the edge of the grove. Even in the light of the slivered moon, Alastriona could see the sticks and windfall lying around. She shook her head to clear it. No words came to her. She repositioned her sword into the scabbard and noticed that the green hue that had filled the path in front of her had shifted to come from behind her.
“What did you do to your sword?” Arnhyder landed beside Sagishi. “Are you okay?”
Alastriona walked forward. “I’m hungry. Did you get some fish, Arnhyder?”
She noticed the looks Sagishi and Arnhyder gave each other, but ignored them. She had no answers for what had happened, nor for why the gem in her sword suddenly glowed a brilliant green.
Alastriona ate her meal in silence. Even Arnhyder understood her need for meditation, for he only whispered occasionally to Sagishi. The elf sent sidelong glances at the centaur, but didn’t comment. After filling her stomach, Alastriona began to explain what she could.
“So, you’re saying that you felt wisdom radiating from the grove, and the next instant you were in some dreamlike memory from your childhood, and then you found yourself beyond the grove with no recollection of how you arrived?” The disbelief was strong in Sagishi’s voice.
“You felt tired both times you entered the grove, correct?” Arnhyder scratched his shoulder with a hind leg.
Alastriona nodded. “Extremely.”
Arnhyder stood. “Well, let’s go investigate.”
“Investigate?” Alastriona stared in wonder at her friend. She knew he was reckless, but this was even too much for him.
“Come on.” Sagishi walked past them both, letting her hand pull at Alastriona’s arm as she went. “We’re not going to figure this out by sitting here. Oh, and bring the sword,” she said almost as an afterthought.
Rising to her feet, Alastriona grabbed Kingdom Defender and followed the others. As soon as she reached the edge of the trees, she felt the call. A deep longing to curl up under the trees and listen to their stories filled her being. The weight of the sword in her hand suddenly seemed too much and pulled the point of the blade toward the ground. Her feet slowed until she stood still. The voices of her companions drifted to her as if on a summer breeze.
Alastriona breathed deeply. The scent of mulching leaves and mint filled her nostrils. The place radiated with a faint green tint. Without thinking, she felt her hands pull the sword from its scabbard. She gazed transfixed as the rippled hues danced in the green light.
As she watched, the ripples began to move, softly at first and then more rapidly. The rhythmic movement brought a peace to her heart she had not known since she’d seen her family for the last time. Her breathing slowed, and she settled to the ground, her eyes still fixed on the blade.
Alastriona’s vision blurred. With sure movements, she used her free hand to wipe at her eyes. When her hand fell away, she saw a plain before her. Humans formed a line of warriors. She looked to either side of her and found Sagishi on her left and Arnhyder on her right. Beyond them other elves, centaurs, and even gryphons stood ready to fight.
The soft glow of rippling green hues came back into focus. What had that been? It wasn’t any memory Alastriona had ever had before. Could it have been a foretelling? With bewilderment she watched as a single tear landed on the blade resting in her arms. A rainbow of colors gleamed from its edges. With care, she shifted the cloth between her arm and the blade and used it to rub away the stain. A hand on her shoulder caused her to look up into almond eyes set in a heart-shaped face.
“Place the blade into the ground, Alastriona,” said Sagishi.
Alastriona looked to Arnhyder.
He nodded. “Elves know more about magic and swords.”
Alastriona nodded. He had a point. With care, she touched the tip of the blade to the grass. As if she was replacing the sword into its scabbard, she pushed it into the ground. A sigh filled the air encompassing her. She knew it didn’t come from her. Instinctively, she inserted the blade in the ground up to its handguard.
“Would you look at that!” Arnhyder moved closer to her. “The grass is twining around the hilt! The color....”
Alastriona felt Sagishi’s grip tighten on her shoulder. The centaur didn’t blame the elf; instead, she leaned forward to watch, never letting her fingers leave the hilt. The soft grass wound its way like a caress around her hands until it reached the pommel and the stone. The green light shone brighter. Alastriona squinted, but never looked away from her sword.
“Kenyoku majíkku.”
The words sighed through the leaves above them. Alastriona felt Sagishi’s surprise radiate through the hand on her shoulder, her sharp inhalation of breath disturbing the silence.
“Erufú kenyoku soshté majíkku.”
Alastriona’s eyes never left her hands or the gem in the pommel that pulsed with the words.
“Koka difénda-a káta-na na ohu kudesahu yokeim kéntau-rosu kudeho yúki.”
As the last words faded into the breeze rustling the leaves above them, a light so bright that Alastriona had to close her eyes burst from the gem. When she opened her eyes again, darkness surrounded her.
Arnhyder’s voice sounded loud in her ears. “I could live a thousand lives and never see anything like this! What was that?”
A soft chuckle which built into a joyous laughter came from Sagishi. Alastriona blinked and looked upward. Stars outlined the elf’s head.
“That, Arnhyder,” Sagishi said when she regained her composure. “That was the magic of the elves!” Awe filled her voice. “I never expected to hear or see it ever again.”
“How can it be?” Alastriona’s voice seemed small and harsh compared to the soft whisper of the magic.
“This place must be an ancient elven village. I can feel the presence of many wise ancestors.” Longing filled Sagishi’s voice.
Arnhyder surprised Alastriona with his words. “We will leave you to wander the grove tonight. Come, Alastriona. I’d like to take a look at your sword in better light, if you don’t mind.”
Alastriona looked back down to the sword. Through the dim green light, she could see that the grass was no longer crawling up her hands, but waving gently in the breeze. With a nod, she began to pull Kingdom Defender out of the ground. The blade slid free without a sound or even a feel of scraping rocks. Alastriona shook her head. After all that had happened that night, it shouldn’t have surprised her, but it did. Once the blade was free, Alastriona glanced along its length to make sure nothing had harmed it. Satisfied, she replaced it in its scabbard. Once the sword rested in its customary place on her back, she stood. Addressing the trees, she bowed low.
“Alastriona Álago thanks you from the bottom of her heart for bringing the power back into my sword, Kingdom Defender, and giving the foresight to me. If I can ever repay the debt, I will.”
“My debt will be difficult to repay, young centaur.”
The same voice she had heard on the wind whispered, only this time in a language she could understand.
“Your blade will tell you what I require. Be aware, it will come one day, when you least expect it.”
Alastriona bowed again, her right hand resting at her heart, her left held at her waist.
“I will listen and try to honor you, most noble of elves.”
“We know. That is why we healed your sword. The healing of your mind will require your own magic.”
“My mind?” Confusion clouded Alastriona’s thoughts.
“Yes, your mind. Young centaur, you have been hurt and hold bitterness tightly to your being. As long as you carry this weight, you will not be able to use your sword as it was meant to be used.”
The wind picked up, and Alastriona shivered. She turned to see Arnhyder’s wide dark eyes gazing at her.
The sunrise cast purplish-pink hues across the land, coloring the fog around the grove. Alastriona gave one last glance at the strange trees and turned. As she did, she noticed Sagishi. The elf’s shoulders sagged; her eyes were clouded with an undecipherable feeling. Alastriona walked over to her new friend.
“I didn’t have the opportunity to thank you last night for what you did.”
Sagishi waved away the compliment. “Do not thank me. I have none of the elven magic left in me. Thank them.” She gestured to the trees.
“I have, and I have accepted the debt they laid upon me.”
Sagishi’s dark eyes pierced to Alastriona’s soul. “They spoke to you, too?”
The centaur nodded. A sparrow chirped in the bushes. Sagishi turned away. Alastriona frowned. Had she said something wrong? For a moment, she had seen into the elf’s soul, but as suddenly as the sun going behind a cloud, it had left.
“Leave her be.” Arnhyder strode up beside Alastriona. “Much weighs on her heart. She’ll come around. In the meantime, let’s go. You never know what adventure awaits us.”
A smile creased Alastriona’s face. “No we don’t, Arnhyder, and you live for adventure.”
“That I do.” The gryphon lifted into the air.
Shaking her hair behind her shoulders, Alastriona readjusted her pack. The weight of Kingdom Defender was a comfort. She wondered how the sword would speak to her, but she didn’t doubt the voice that had spoken the night before. One day, she would repay the debt. Until then, she would protect Sagishi; that she knew. With a contented sigh, she lengthened her stride into a gallop to catch up with Arnhyder and the elf.

Mothers’ Night Out

“Thank you so much for covering Alaina’s shift tonight,” Josie told me when I stepped into her infant classroom at 6:45.
“No problem,” I told her. “When I clocked out at five, I got some dinner and a couple snacks for later.” I held up my hands to show her my grocery bag and my fast food leftovers.
A flicker of a frown passed over Josie’s face. I checked my attitude, because I knew she was a health nut. Whatever. She was forty-four, the same age as my mom, and looked every bit of it. All that kale and avoidance of gluten wasn’t doing her any big favors. “What’s left over from your dinner?” she asked.
“Half a hamburger.”
She frowned a little more this time and told me, “You’ll have to finish that now before the families arrive, but you can put your drinks in the little fridge over there by the sink.” Okay, maybe she wasn’t judging my choice of food after all. She just didn’t want me eating in front of the kids. I went to throw the hamburger in the trash. “No!” Josie said sharply, stopping me. “I prefer you just eat it, if you don’t mind.”
“I’m really not hungry,” I told her, reaching for the handle to the trash cabinet.
She put her hand on the cabinet to block me. “I’m afraid I must insist that you finish it. So it won’t leave a smell.”
Fine. I took the hamburger out and ate it in three big bites right in front of her.
“Thank you,” she said, not even fazed by my rudeness. She actually looked a little grateful, if that made any sense at all.
After I put up my snacks, I asked, “When did we start opening in the evenings? Is it a special event?”
I’d only been working at New Tradition Day Care since June when I graduated from high school. The place was open normally from 7:30am to 5:30pm. It was a really nice, high quality center, with its own parking lot and ringed by beautiful spruce trees that separated it from a large park. They charged a ton for tuition—not that my measly paycheck reflected any of it.
Josie didn’t stand around while she talked, she kept busy taking all the cotton sheets off the crib mattresses and tossing them to me, then replacing them with waterproof plastic sheets. “Actually, Mallory, this is a regular thing,” she answered. “We keep it pretty hush hush. We wouldn’t want all the parents to know we have a Mother’s Night Out program or we’d be overrun.” She tossed another sheet to me. “Alaina usually helps me, but she just had to go see KISS in concert. She said it only happens once in a blue moon, and she couldn’t miss it.”
Done with the cribs, she got out a couple big plastic bins and gathered all the soft toys into them. Into the bins went the dolls, stuffed animals and even some of the plastic toys like the blocks that could be squeezed. I helped her once I began to understand that she was only leaving out hard plastic toys, the kind that can’t be destroyed. “Alaina said I’d only have to work until 11:00,” I double-checked. “Is she really coming back to work after a concert like that? I wouldn’t.”
“She understands her responsibility,” Josie said, putting the bins in a closet where the babies couldn’t get to them.
“I can stay all night if you need me to,” I said. “Then she won’t have to rush.”
Josie paused and looked me right in the eyes. “I’d prefer you to leave as planned.” Then she smiled. “Besides, I think you’re scheduled to open tomorrow morning for regular care.”
“We could just switch schedules. I feel bad about ruining her good time. Why don’t you call her?”
“No.”
That answer sounded final. I knew the tone well from my mom. I didn’t push it any further.
Headlights came in through the front windows of the room, and Josie quickly pulled the blinds all the way down to block them out. “The parents are arriving. Before they come in, there’s something you should know. These aren’t babies that go to this day care regularly. We’re going to have nine of them. There are two sets of twins and one set of triplets in this group. The youngest is an only child and only nine weeks old. The oldest baby is Ms. Dierdre’s son. He’s eleven months and the third born of a triplet group, but his brothers don’t need to come here anymore.”
Ms. Dierdre was our Center Director. “I didn’t even know she had kids,” I confessed. Josie just shrugged and didn’t offer any more information because the first mom was entering the classroom.
She was introduced to me as Shelley Gray as she pushed her two babies into the room in a two-seat stroller. She wore yoga pants and a tank top like she was headed for the gym instead of a job. The woman was lean and fit, I noticed. Though her babies, two boys, appeared to be about six months old, she didn’t look like she had recently given birth. There wasn’t a hint of leftover pregnancy fat left on her. Mrs. Gray was sweet as could be and seemed delighted that her babies would have a place to stay for the night. She never stopped smiling for a second, thanked us a hundred times, and only had a moment of worry cross her eyes when Josie introduced me and explained that Alaina was going to be late.
“Oh, well, I’m sure you have it all worked out, like usual,” Mrs. Gray said. She winked at me. “You’ll learn a lot from Ms. Josie. Everyone in town says she’s the ‘Baby Whisperer’ because she knows everything there is about taking care of babies.”
Josie gave an aw shucks look that made me laugh out loud. A diaper bag was passed over, and I took it to the counter to put the bottles in the refrigerator. I noticed there were only two. “Um, Mrs. Gray?” I said, trying to catch her before she left. “There aren’t enough bottles for the whole night.”
Mrs. Gray looked uncertainly at Ms. Josie, who said, “Two is all they’ll need. They’re going to bed at eight.”
“O—kay,” I said, but I let them know in my tone that I thought it was stupid not to have a back-up. Some baby whisperer. Everyone knows babies wake up hungry in the middle of the night.
Within the next twenty minutes all the moms had shown up with their kiddos. While they weren’t all in work-out attire, they all were amazingly healthy looking. All of them had sleek, long hair, strong arms and long legs.
The other thing they had in common was the desire to give their kids unusual names. Mrs. Diedre’s son was Maccon. The two girl twins that were nine months old were Susi and Timber. The triplets were Lowell, Canagan, and Channon. Channon was a boy, mind you, and Canagan was the girl. Weird. Mrs. Gray’s twin boys had more normal names. She was kind enough to name them Channing and Colin. The tiniest baby was Felan, a little girl.
Once again, I was kind of glad the babies would all be asleep early, because I didn’t want to have to say those names over and over again all night long.
Ms. Dierdre was the last mom to arrive. She came in a little harried at 6:30 and apologized for being late. She went to plop little Maccon down on the floor, but he refused to bend his body to sit. So, she made sure he was steady in standing position and let go. Maccon smiled giddily, took two steps and fell to his bottom.
“He’s walking now,” Ms. Dierdre told us. “Just a couple steps, but he’ll be good at it within the next week or so if he’s anything like his brothers.”
Josie took the diaper bag from Ms. Dierdre and asked, “So, this will be his last overnight visit then?”
Ms. Diedre beamed with pride. “I think so. It’s about time. His brothers learned to walk at ten months. He’s been slow. I’d keep an eye out on him tonight, though. He’s liable to try to jump out of the crib.”
“Jump out?” I said. I’d babysat a lot of babies over the past four years, and I’d seen babies climb out of cribs but never jump.
Ms. Diedre just patted me on the shoulder and said, “You’ll be gone before then, so you won’t need to concern yourself about it. Ms. Josie knows what to do.”
Maccon was a cute boy with pretty hair that was blond at the roots and dark at the tips. His mom had dark hair with a cool streak of blond close to the front that ran from where she parted it to where her hair was cut just below her shoulder. I once asked a co-worker if she dyed it like that, but I was told it was natural and she’d had that streak of blond her whole life.
Ms. Dierdre followed Josie over to the counter and spoke quietly while I sat on the floor and played with the babies. I heard her say, “There isn’t any worry about Alaina getting here in time, is there?”
“No. She knows the schedule.”
“Okay,” Mrs. Dierdre said warily. “Because, you know I can’t control what will happen if she’s late.”
Wow, I thought. Alaina must have some problem with tardiness. It sounded like if she were late one more time she’d get fired.
“She’ll be here,” Josie said with confidence.
Ms. Dierdre seemed to accept that and smiled. She walked over and kissed her baby on the head. Maccon reached up her arms for a hug, and she pulled him up to her again. He kissed her cheek and then opened his mouth. “Ow, Maccon! No!” Ms. Dierdre shouted and put her baby back on the floor a little roughly. “No biting.” She put her hand to her face but not fast enough for me to see that her son had broken the skin. I’d have to remember that kid had some sharp teeth. On the floor, Maccon grinned, and I noticed he hadn’t grown his front two teeth yet. So far he only had two fang teeth on the top.
I followed Mrs. Dierdre to the door of the classroom, “Um, Ms. Dierdre, Alaina didn’t say how much I get paid for this tonight. Is it the same rate as during the day?”
“Oh no,” Ms. Dierdre said. “This is special. You get twenty-five an hour.”
“No kidding. Really?”
“Yes.” She winked at me. “It’ll be easy money. The babies will all be asleep in an hour.”
That was kind of funny, actually, since I didn’t even earn half of that per hour during the daytime hours and had to work very hard with the hyper little devils. I kind of wanted to text my mom and tell her what I was being paid. She said I’d never get paid more than minimum wage if I didn’t go to college.
I did the math in my head and then said to my boss, “Hey, I’d be happy to work all night, so Alaina doesn’t have to rush here after the concert. Do you want us to call her?”
Ms. Dierdre’s lip seemed to snarl at the suggestion. She looked past me to Josie. “Alaina better be here on time. You make sure she understands that.”
Geez. I guess Ms. Dierdre let me know what she thought of me, didn’t she? What was so awesome about Alaina anyway? I’d been in the classroom with her before, and she didn’t do anything super special with the kids. In fact, sometimes I thought she was kind of lazy and just sat in the rocking chairs holding sleeping babies so she wouldn’t have to help do anything. I bit my lip on my thoughts as I watched Ms. Dierdre leave the room.
Josie didn’t say a word to me about the way Ms. Dierdre behaved toward me or the fact that I had just tried to go over her head and get my boss to approve me staying all night when Josie told me I couldn’t. Once Ms. Dierdre was gone, Josie put me straight to work. We had nine babies who all need to have bottles, baby food and clean diapers before being rocked to sleep. She knew the kids well and told me that we needed to start with the youngest first.
It was kind of amazing to watch her work. At times she seemed like she sprouted extra limbs, because she could do so many things at once. She could balance a bottle-fed baby on her knee while spoon-feeding a baby in a high chair, all while keeping a little one from crying by bouncing them in a bouncy seat with her foot. I needed a few directions, but I think I was keeping up with the pace she needed. When I started the diaper changes, she told me to leave the babies wearing just a diaper. No pajamas. I thought that was a strange request, but I guessed between that and the plastic sheets she was trying to avoid the mess of babies who leaked out of their diapers at night.
I had Susi and Timber in the high chairs eating some kind of homemade, pureed beef stew when I noticed that both of those baby girls only had their top fang teeth too. How weird that three babies in the same class grew their fangs before their front teeth. “Is that unusual?” I asked Josie. She shrugged like it wasn’t a big deal to her.
“I see that all the time,” she said.
Now I was curious, and I began to check the other babies. The triplets were only growing their bottom teeth, because they were still only about five months old. Channing and Colin, however, had some growing nubs just under their upper gums. Incisors.
At 7:30 Josie dimmed the lights to the play area a little bit, giving the room a nice soft glow. The crib area, which was three-quarters blocked off by a glass partition, was mostly dark, with just enough light coming in through the windows to make everything visible. When the lights were on in that area, it was just too bright for sleeping. Josie played soft piano lullaby music on her iPod and ran it through a speaker in the crib room.
There were two rocking chairs in the room. While the bigger kids played on the floor, we each took a baby in our arms, wrapped it up in a blanket and rocked it to sleep. I’d seen babies nap in the swing and in bouncy seats during the daytime, but Josie insisted that every baby sleep in a crib at night. When I put the first baby, little Felan, in her crib, Josie stepped up beside me and carefully took the blanket off the baby and out of the crib. I thought the baby looked so exposed lying there mostly naked on a white plastic bed sheet with no soft blanket to cuddle with. Josie was insistent about this too, and she snatched the blankets off all the babies I put down in the cribs.
Maccon gave me the hardest time, being the oldest. He was kind of heavy, pushing twenty-five pounds, and he kicked and hollered a lot. Josie had to take him from me and did some kind of magic on him. Within seconds, she had him calmed down and sucking his pacifier for all its worth. She put him in his crib, took his blanket and then took his pacifier.
“Can he sleep without that?” I asked.
“It’s safer for him this way,” she said. “So he won’t choke.”
“Choke on a pacifier?”
Josie said nothing about that. She turned her back to me and reached into his bed again. I walked away, because she was clearly not interested in telling me why she was being so peculiar. All I could think was that she had a really strong fear of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome and didn’t want to take any chances.
I got out one of my sodas and popped it open. The dim lights, soft looping music, warm baby bodies and rocking had practically worked me into a coma. It was only 8:30, and I needed all the caffeine I could put into my body to stay awake for the next two and a half hours. Josie emerged from the crib area and smiled.
“Are all the puppies sleeping?” I asked her.
A weird look crossed her face. “What did you call them?”
“Oh, sorry,” I said. “I have a habit of calling crawling babies puppies.”
She snickered. “That’s actually really funny,” she said. Then she started laughing harder and had to cover her mouth so she wouldn’t be too loud.
I couldn’t help but laugh a little too, but I was laughing at her and not my nickname for babies. “It’s not that funny.”
“No,” she said with a snort. “It is. You have no idea.” Then she waved her hand and calm herself. “You did great, Mallory. They should all sleep for a while. They usually do.”
“What do we do now?”
“You’re welcome to read a book or check your emails. You just need to stay awake and look in on the sleepers every fifteen minutes or so.”
I didn’t have a book, so I watched some music videos and checked a bunch of websites out on my phone while we passed the time. After rinsing out all the bottles and cleaning the toys with bleach-water, Josie settled down to read a romance novel. My eyelids began to droop and my phone jerked in my hand. Staying awake was proving to be difficult.
I heard a big BAM from the crib area, followed by an eerie silence. Three seconds later a baby’s scream jerked me to full attention. Josie bounded to her feet and bolted to the crib area. I couldn’t believe how fast she moved for a lady her age. I’m twenty-five years younger than her, and I was barely out of my seat before the baby was in her arms. I peeked around the glass partition to see Josie hugging little Timber tightly and whispering “Sh, sh, sh, it’s okay, sweetie” over and over again.
“Is she okay?” I asked as quietly as I could, kind of amazed that none of the other babies had woken up. Josie carried Timber out to the play area and bounced her gently as she walked.
“She fell out of her crib,” Josie said. “I didn’t know she’d learned to pull up to stand yet, and I haven’t lowered her mattress.” She pulled the baby away from her chest, and I could see the big knot on her forehead.
“You want me to fill out an accident report and call her mom?” I asked Josie. That’s what we did during the daytime when a kid got hurt.
Josie shook her head. “No. We can’t call the moms. They don’t have phones with them.”
“What?” I’d never heard of that before. What mother leaves her kid at a day care, overnight no less, without being able to be reached in case of emergency?
“The moms are ... doing something where they can’t be reached.” She kissed Timber’s boo-boo and then sat down with her and a blanket and started rocking her all over again. “Timber will be okay. It’s just a bump. Mom can’t do anything about it anyway.”
“What if there’s a fire or something? What if there’s an intruder? I don’t know if I’m comfortable being here without being able to call the moms if something happens.”
Josie frowned at me sharply. “You only have to be here another half hour,” she snapped. “Then you won’t have to worry about it.”
“Sorry,” I said, probably with a little too much attitude. Josie didn’t say anything to me, even after she put Timber back in her crib.
“Won’t she fall out again?” I asked after a few minutes. “Do you want me to lower the base?”
“We can’t do it right now,” she said. “It’ll make too much noise.”
“But—”
“Let me worry about it, Mallory.”
Josie was done with me. I was done with her too. She sounded like my mom. Twenty-five bucks an hour or not, I was ready to go. I started putting my stuff together with my purse.
The classroom phone rang. Josie dashed to it and turned down the volume on the ringer before she answered. After a moment she asked in a tone that got me a little concerned, “What do mean you won’t get here in time?”
It had to be Alaina. Apparently, the concert ran long, and the traffic getting away from the arena was ridiculous. She hoped she’d be here by 11:30, but it would be close.
“You may as well not come.”
“It’s only half an hour late,” I said. “Isn’t it better that she’s here than worry about her being a little late? I mean, is Ms. Dierdre really going to fire her for that?”
Josie ignored me. “You don’t understand, Alaina. It’s not just you getting in here in time. I’ve got to get Mallory out.”
“Yeah,” I agreed. “I’m ready to go home.”
“Okay,” Josie sighed, still talking to Alaina and not acknowledging me. “Just be safe and keep an eye on the time. If it gets too late, turn around and go home. Mallory will have to stick it out.”
“Wait. What?”
Josie hung up the phone and looked back at me. “You offered, didn’t you?”
“Yeah, but….”
“Think. You could take home three hundred dollars for the whole night.”
Okay, that was worth suffering through some sleep deprivation and Josie’s unintentional impressions of my mom.
Josie paced back and forth, pulling back the blinds once and a while to glance out to the dark parking lot. Honestly? I was pretty offended. I thought I had done a pretty decent job helping her get all these babies fed and to bed on time. That was a pretty mad rush, and it went smoothly. Why was she acting like me staying the whole night with her was going to be the worst thing that ever happened?
At 11:40, Josie sat down on the toy shelf next to me. “Look,” she said seriously, “I don’t think Alaina’s coming, and there are a few things you need to know.”
“Okay,” I said. I pretended to be interested, because, honestly, how hard could it be to watch a group of sleeping babies?
“Right after midnight all the babies are going to wake up.”
I knew it! I knew she was insane to think they would sleep through the night.
“They will all wake up at once, and they are going to be loud and very hungry. One of the moms usually drops off something for them to eat by our back door.”
I looked over at the windowed door that led to the fenced-in playground. Was a mom delivering some fresh pumped breast milk or something? That was different.
“They will all eat in their cribs. Don’t try to take the ... babies ... out of their cribs.”
“Okay,” I said. I wondered how little Felan at three months old was going to hold a bottle by herself in her crib, but I figured Josie knew what she was talking about.
“And don’t let them bite you,” Josie added. “That’s really important.”
“I’ll do my best,” I said with a smile. She didn’t smile back, and I let mine fade. Josie was weirdly intense, and it creeped me out just a little bit. I followed Josie to the diaper changing area where she pushed the regular latex glove box aside and pulled out two pairs of thick rubber gloves out from under the counter, the kind you might use in some science experiment with acid or something. She plopped them down on the changing pad.
“You’ll need these,” she said.
“Am I going to clean the toilets or something?”
Josie didn’t say no, and I rolled my eyes.
“Look, Mallory,” Josie said, grabbing me by my shoulders. “I’m not joking around here. What’s about to happen is not going to be like anything you’ve done before.”
“I’ve babysat overnight for people before,” I told her. “I can handle it. Although I still don’t get what the big deal is about Alaina coming late and me leaving. You guys act like there’s a crazy killer that comes out after midnight.”
“There is.”
I’ll admit my heart hitched a second, but I brushed it away. Surely Josie was pulling my leg. The phone rang, and I actually put out my arm to block Josie so I could get to it first. It was Alaina.
“Hey, I’m turning into the parking lot now,” she said. “Can one of you be at the front door to open it for me? I’m going to run.”
“Yeah, I can open it,” I said.
“Is that Alaina?” Josie asked. We saw the beams from her car headlights coming toward the window. “Tell her to turn around and leave. Now!”
“She’s going to run in,” I said.
“She won’t make it.”
“If I grab my keys, I’ll run out while she runs in.”
“No!” Alaina’s voice shouted it over the phone at the same time as Josie shouted it my ears. I heard a baby whimper in one of the cribs. Then another.
“They’re waking up,” Josie said. “We’re out of time. Tell Alaina to stay in her car and get out of here.”
“Alaina?” I spoke into the phone.
“Go to the front door. Fast!”
I ran out of the classroom and down the hallway to the front door of the building with Josie screaming after me to stop. I had my hand on the deadbolt, and I could see the back end of Alaina’s car. She had parked in in the handicap spot right in front of the building. I turned the lock to open. Alaina came running up.
Then, and it happened so fast, she looked to the right and screamed. Something huge jumped past the front door in a streak of gray.  And Alaina was gone.
“Oh no!” I screamed. “Oh no, oh no! Alaina?” I began to open the door, when Josie ran up behind me and shut it tight. She shoved my hands away from the lock and twisted it closed. I barely registered that Josie had just left the infant room unattended. “Did you see that, Josie? Alaina? What just happened?”
“I need you in the room,” Josie said, dragging me away from the front door.
“I’ve got to go out there and see if Alaina’s okay,” I said. “I heard we had coyotes in the neighborhood. Last month Miss Stephanie found a dead cat carcass on the playground. Maybe it was a….”
“Come on, Mallory,” Josie said, tugging at me with all her strength down the hall. “We need to do this quickly.”
“I need to call 911 or something.”
“No you don’t. You need to help me with the babies.”
I heard them before we got to the classroom door. All nine of them were awake, all screaming and wailing. It was the most awful noise I’d ever heard. Baby panic mixed with some growling. I’d heard Josie joke about babies sounding like pterodactyls when they cry, but this was like a swarm of them. Josie opened the classroom door and the noise doubled, so loud I cupped my hands to my ears. She grabbed the rubber gloves and shoved them into my chest for me to put on. I watched her pull on her gloves and clench her hands. Her expression had a fierceness that frightened me.
“How do we calm them down?” I asked.
“We’re going to feed them.”
I stepped into the crib area to find all the cribs rocking back and forth violently. The babies were screaming, their eyes huge and their mouths open so wide. They sounded like they were in pain. Even tiny Felan was pitching the biggest fit I’d ever seen.
“Should I start picking them up and rocking them again?” I asked, starting to reach for Felan.
“No!” Josie shouted and batted my hands away. “Don’t touch them.”
Then there was a succession of cracking sounds that sound like an army stomping over a field of skeletons. The cries changed pitch, going from that familiar “wah wah!” to something long and eerie. More like a wail.
Or a howl.
I stood in the center of the crib room with the cribs in a rectangle around me and gaped as the legs of the babies grew and twisted. Then their arms lengthened, and their tiny fingers grew claws. Those sweet chubby faces contorted while hair sprouted all over their bald little heads. In horror I watched nine sweet babies turn into animals.
Wolf cubs.
“What’s happening?” I spoke in a whisper, all the voice I could muster as I watched the puppies writhe around on their mattresses.
Once they finished their transformation, their cries calmed down. They barked and sniffed. I stepped closer to one of the cribs and watched what used to be baby Channon walk around in a circle and then make himself cozy in the corner of his crib. I leaned toward him, and he looked up and me and growled, baring all his teeth. He had more than just a couple canines now. I backed up, and behind me another wolf jumped up, its front paws on the top of the drop side. It barked and growled at me. I screamed and flung around. It was—used to be—baby Maccon. A dog leash that strapped him to the crib prevented him from leaping at my head.
“You put a leash on him when you tucked him in?” I asked Josie.
She nodded. “Good thing too. I also put one on Timber, just to be sure. The others shouldn’t be able to jump out. They aren’t pulling up yet.”
“You knew this would happen,” I said.
“Yes. It happens every month.”
She led me out of the crib area.
“So the mothers are also….”
“Yes. And they are territorial and have a strong maternal instinct, which means they don’t stray too far from this building at night. They hunt in the surrounding park, and one is always right outside.”
I went over to the window and looked behind the shade out to the darkness. “Alaina?”
“She knew better,” Josie said. Her tone of voice sounded hard, but I could see the tear streaks on her face.
“What happens now?” I asked.
“One of the mothers will drop some food by the back door in a few minutes, something they’ve hunted. We’ll feed it to the young, and then they should settle back down and sleep out the night.”
“Should?”
“They usually do.”
“You’re very calm about this.”
SLAM! Something got thrown against the glass panes of the back door. I shrieked and Josie gasped. It was good to know something rattled her. “It’s just the food,” she told me, taking my hands and looking me square in the eyes. “Just some fresh meat. Usually cats or rabbits.”
“That was a loud noise for cats or rabbits,” I said.
Then we heard a moan come from near the back door. Josie let go of my hands, and we both rushed to the door where we found Alaina pressing her face against a bloody pane, her hands splayed out to both sides of her head, and her hair tangled in knots.
“Oh, my sweet Lord!” Josie shouted. She opened the door, and Alaina’s upper body collapsed inside. I dragged her all the way in, and Josie shut the door as fast as she could. I looked out the glass panes and swore I saw two eyes glowing from under the plastic slide in the corner of our play yard.
“Is she dead?” I asked, as I let go of Alaina on the colorful mats the covered the floor. Blood was smeared all over her skin. Her brand new concert t-shirt was ripped to shreds, and her shoes were missing. Below her mini-skirt, dozens of deep scratches covered her legs from ankle to thigh.
Alaina moaned again, answering my question. Josie rolled Alaina onto her side to check the girl’s back and neck. After looking carefully at every part of her, she said, “Let’s get her cleaned up.”
We both grabbed some washcloths and wet them in the sink. A couple minutes later we got most of the blood off of her, and found that she had been bitten several times as well as scratched. The deepest punctures were just below her rib cage, where the wolf probably held her to carry her to our door. I applied pressure to those bites because they were still bleeding.
“What does this mean?” I’d seen a movie or two about werewolves. I knew in the stories that werewolf bites were bad things. By the look on Josie’s face, I had to guess that all those stories weren’t far off the mark.
The baby wolves began howling again from their cribs. Maccon kept trying to jump, but his leash held him in place. The noise of his crib banging against the wall was driving me crazy. “What do they want?”
“They want to eat, Mallory,” Josie said, her patience gone. “The mothers are supposed to bring food. They usually bring us the first hunt of the night. It should have been here by now.” She took the blood-soaked washcloth from my hands and got me a fresh one. “Alaina was a distraction, I think. They’ll get the food to us in a few minutes.”
Fifteen minutes passed, and no food arrived at the back door. The wailing from the cubs was so loud it made my brain rattle inside my head. “Why aren’t they coming?” I cried.
“I don’t know.”
I pulled the wash cloth away from Alaina’s mid-section. It was soaked through as well. A thought came to me. I dared to say it out loud. “You don’t think Alaina was the first hunt of the night? You don’t think they mean for us to feed her to the baby wolves?”
“Of course not,” Josie said. “They know Alaina. They wouldn’t do that….”
“Did they know her when they attacked her? Clearly not, or they would have let her get to the door.”
Josie took the washcloth from me. Her hands were trembling. She moved slowly to the trash can and reached for another washcloth. The stack of them tumbled down on her. I jumped up and grabbed a couple and went back to Alaina’s side.
“I don’t think I can save her,” I said. “We need to call an ambulance.”
“We can’t,” Josie said. “There’s no way the EMTs could get into the building. There’s no way for them to get her out.”
The blood stopped pumping out of the bites on Alaina’s shoulder, and I heard a long exhale come out of her mouth. I knew she was gone. In the crib room, the baby wolves were going crazy. They could smell the blood. Timber and Maccon were both jumping so hard, their cribs were nearly tipping over.
“Josie,” I said, putting my hands on the older woman’s shoulders. “We’re going to have to do something.”
She nodded and stood up. I took Alaina’s arms, and she grabbed her feet. Together we dragged the body across the room, past the opening to the crib area where the cubs sniffed and growled at us. Josie opened the supply closet door. I let go of Alaina’s arms to pull out some of the extra bouncy seats and mats that were stuffed in there, and then we put Alaina on the floor inside the closet, scrunching her knees up to her chest so that she would fit. Josie closed the door.
“I’ll see if we have anything in the kitchen they can eat.” She walked out of the baby room and closed the door behind her. I watched her go down the hall to the kitchen while the wolf cubs howled behind, too acutely aware that the dead body of my co-worker was just on the other side of the closet door. I felt trapped. I couldn’t run anywhere, because I couldn’t get out of the building. I couldn’t leave the babies, even if they were wolves. What if something happened to one of them? Would I be held responsible? How did werewolf mothers react when their babies got hurt at day care? I thought of Alaina’s body and began to shiver uncontrollably. There was no way out of this night.
A couple minutes later Josie reappeared, carrying a bowl of meatballs in barbecue sauce and a bag of sandwich meat. “This was all the meat I could find.” It was probably going to be part of the lunch served to the older kids the next day.  “Don’t reach too far into the cribs,” she instructed. “You need to toss the food in there and get your hand back as fast as possible. Do you understand?” I nodded.
We divvied up the food and headed for the cribs. Josie took one side of the room, while I got the other. I tossed some food at baby Channon, and he snapped the deli meat right out the air. His food was gone before I even got to the second baby. Timber jumped up to the rail of the crib, yanking hard on her leash. I tossed the food behind her onto the mattress. She turned around and gobbled it up.
“This isn’t going to be near enough food,” I said.
“I know,” Josie answered. “It’s going to have to do, though.”
“Isn’t there some kind of symbol we can stick up in the window that will help the wolves know that we need some more food?”
“Wolves can’t read.”
Then she shrieked and cussed, followed by a quick stream of, “Oh no, oh no, oh no….”
“Are you okay?” I asked, throwing the last handful of my food into a crib and turning to her.
“No!” she shouted. She spun around and pulled the glove off her right hand. Puncture wounds went deep into her forearm, and blood streamed down her arm. I looked past her to see blood dripping from the fang teeth of Maccon. He kept lurching toward her for more. I grabbed Josie by the other arm and yanked her away before Maccon managed to move the crib close enough to get hold of her shoulder.
“Damn it!” Then there was another stream of cussing. Who knew that the lead teacher of the infant room, a woman known for soothing any crying baby to sleep in seconds, could have so many foul words in her vocabulary?
“Let me help you clean that up,” I said, leading her to the sink. I helped her rinse the wounds off and got out some bandages from the first aid kit.  Once she was looking better and some color had returned to her face, I asked, “What does this mean, Josie? Are you going to be okay?”
She bit her lip to calm herself before saying, “I’m sure you’ve seen a werewolf movie or two, or maybe read a book about them, right?” I nodded. “Well, there is something that’s pretty consistent with all their stories.”
“If you get bit by a werewolf, you turn into a werewolf.”
“That’s right,” she said.
“But these are just babies. Doesn’t that make a difference? It wasn’t a full grown wolf, so…”
Josie shook her head. “Even if it did work like that, which it doesn’t, Maccon is almost a year old and standing. He’ll be walking in days. In wolf terms, he’s full grown.”
Some of the wolves in the crib room began to settle down now that they had eaten something. The younger ones seemed satisfied for the moment. I could still hear Maccon growling and tearing at his mattress.
“Will it happen tonight?” I asked.
“No,” she said. “Probably tomorrow night.” She held her arm close to her chest and raised her eyes to the ceiling in an attempt not to cry. “I’ve been so careful all this time.”
“How long have you been doing this werewolf daycare?”
“About nine months,” she said. “In a pack, the males do the hunting while the females stay with their cubs until they’re old enough to join their fathers. Diedre and her sisters are modern, independent women, though, and they wanted to do things differently. They all held off having babies for a long time so that they could have their careers and enjoy the hunt themselves. It was Diedre’s idea, since she ran a day care, to have the infant cubs cared for on full moons by someone she trusted. When her sisters agreed that they would help pay for it, they all allowed themselves to get pregnant. I’ve been taking care of the cubs since Dierdre’s children were six weeks old.”
“So all of the moms I met are Ms. Dierdre’s sisters?”
“Yes,” Josie said.
“Have you had any accidents here before?” I asked.
“No. Alaina and I have been taking care of everything without incident until tonight.”
“So, I’m just bad luck,” I said.
Josie sighed. “It’s not you. It was bound to happen eventually.”
A huge crash sounded from the crib area. The wolves started howling again, so it took a second before I realized that I could hear the scramble of paws on the linoleum floor. Maccon rounded the corner from the crib room and came running right toward us, the chewed up leash trailing behind him.
“Get up on the changing table!” I screamed at Josie. Using her good arm, she launched herself up to the table and got her foot up just before Maccon took a bite out of her sneaker. I climbed upon the counter next to the sink. There were cabinets that stuck out from the wall above the counter, so I couldn’t get back from the edge, and I stood like I was perched on the window ledge of a building, with my toes half an inch over the counter. Maccon wasn’t as interested in me, because he could smell the blood on Josie and the changing table was shorter. He jumped all around the table, trying to get high enough.
I reached over to the cabinet where we keep the baby crackers and puff snacks. I opened it carefully, took out a container and popped the lid. “I’m going to throw these on the floor,” I said to Josie. “Then you run for the door and get out of the room.”
“I’m not leaving you here by yourself,” she said. “How will you get away?”
“I don’t know,” I said. “But he’s going to kill you.” I threw the food. The noise caught Maccon’s attention and he ran toward the sound. He began gobbling up the munchies on the floor. I knew it wouldn’t take long and I readied another package to throw before he finished. Josie lowered herself as silently as she could on the far side of the changing table. The door to the hallway seemed a thousand miles away, and I didn’t know if this non-meat snack would keep the cub’s attention once she started toward it.
She took a step, but the play mat under her feet squeaked. Maccon raised his head at the sound. I shook the container in my hand, but he didn’t care about that noise. His senses were better than that, and he knew his prey had moved. He waited. Frozen in place, Josie reached out with her arm toward the changing table as if she would climb back onto it in slow motion. The edge of her bandage caught on the vinyl changing mat and made the slightest whisper of a sound as she tugged it free. It was enough of a sound to send Maccon running.
Josie didn’t have time to climb or jump. Instead, she lunged for the back door which was only two feet to the left of her. She opened it and leapt up onto the toy shelf to the far side of it. Maccon rushed right out the door and she slammed it shut behind him, locking him outside.
“What did I just do?”
“You saved our lives,” I said.
“I sent a baby out into the night unprotected. He could get lost.”
“He’s not really a baby right now,” I reminded her. “Plus, at least one of the moms is out there. She’ll help him.”
“He’ll wake up in the morning a naked, helpless baby. I have to get him.”
Josie had lost her mind, I could tell. I jumped down from the counter and ran to her, but it was too late. She had already opened the door. Maccon bounded in and leapt at Josie. She fell backward with the baby wolf on top of her. He clawed at her chest and opened his mouth to take a chunk out of her face. I threw the food container at the wolf and it bounced off the top of his head. I got closer and sprayed bleach water at the dog to distract it, and that worked for a half second. I knew I was running out of options. He opened his jaws again and Josie screamed.
A giant wolf burst through the still open back door. She bit into the scruff of the cub’s neck and pulled it away from Josie. With the baby wolf struggling in its jaws, the mama wolf looked up at me, revealing a stripe of white hair from her eyebrow to between her ears, and growled. She backed out of the door.
I pushed the door shut as fast as I could and knelt over Josie. She had passed out. Her chest was bleeding badly. I grabbed some cloth bibs and what was left of the wash cloths and patted her until she stopped bleeding. I didn’t want to put her in the closet with Alaina’s dead body, so I pulled her out of the classroom and laid her down in the hallway. I tucked a couple receiving blankets under her head and put another one over her chest and then left her out there.
The noise and the smell of the blood had the baby wolves riled up again. Even little Felan was barking and whining in her crib. Timber struggled against her leash and kept turning round to bite at it. I knew it was just a matter of time before she gnawed through hers too.
I went back to the sink area and cleared everything off the counter. I got up on the counter and lay down so that I fit my body against the wall in the thin space between the counter and the cabinets. In this position I was about half a foot from the edge of the counter, and I thought even if Timber got free of the crib, she couldn’t get to me in this position.
It was well after two in the morning now. I wanted to call my mom and tell her I loved her. I wanted to tell her that I was sorry about being such a jerk all through high school and not working harder toward my grades. I wanted to tell her she was right about me never succeeding at anything because I probably wouldn’t live through the night. I didn’t though. My phone was on the far side of the room.
Out in the hallway, Josie woke up. She sat up and looked through the window. I gestured for her to stay out there and pointed toward the cribs. I couldn’t see the babies from where I was nestled, but she could. By her horrified expression, I guessed that Timber had chewed through the leash. Josie nodded and stayed in the hall, lying back down on the blankets.
A few minutes later Timber’s crib crashed over, and the cub was loose and sniffing around the room. She pawed at the door to the closet for a long time, clearly smelling the bloody corpse of Alaina inside. I stayed as still as I could, and my arms and legs tingled from the effort. Timber came into the changing table area and discovered the remainder of the munchies on the ground and gobbled them up and licked the blood from Alaina and Josie off the mats. She sniffed the air and went toward the back door, maybe catching a whiff of the mama wolf’s musky odor. Then Timber began to pull toys out of the shelves and shake them around, clearly looking for something else to eat. I watched the wolf for thirty-five minutes before she finally walked around in a circle six times and then plopped down on one of the play mats. She put her muzzle down on her front paws and closed her eyes.
I realized then that the whole room was quiet. All of the cubs had finally dozed off.
I tried to stay awake, but I’d been so tense with fear for so long that the second I let the fear go I fell asleep without even realizing it.
Josie woke me up by lifting my arm from where it dangled off the counter and placing it by my face. I was mortified that I had fallen asleep and very grateful to still have my hand.
“What’s happening?” I asked.
“Sunrise,” she told me. She had raised the shades a bit, and I could see the golden glow beginning in the sky. Over on the play mat, the naked baby form of Timber slept soundly. I got down and stretched out my body. Carefully, I picked up the baby and put her back in her crib. All of the other babies were naked and asleep in their cribs, looking like innocent cherubs.
“Come on,” Josie said. “The moms will be here soon to pick up the children, and we have a lot of cleaning to do before the center opens for business.”
I could feel myself gaping at her. “We’re really going to open today? Like nothing happened? There’s a dead body in the closet.”
But Josie put a finger to her mouth to shush me, nodding at the sleeping babies around us. “It’ll be handled.” She pulled me away from the babies, her grip tight on my arm. “Let’s get started.”
I scrubbed the remaining blood off the floor from where Maccon attacked Josie while she began cleaning up the food that had spilled on the floor in the crib area. The babies began to stir. She had me diaper them and put them in clean clothes while she threw away the plastic crib sheets and scrubbed the mattresses and sides with bleach water.
Ms. Dierdre came in the door right about 6:00 am wearing a jogging outfit. Holding her hand for support, Maccon toddled in beside her, dressed, his curly hair bouncing around his ears and just above the superhero bandages on the back of his neck. She wasn’t smiling, but she didn’t exactly look pissed off either.
“I’m sorry about putting Maccon outside,” Josie began to say. Ms. Dierdre put up a hand to stop her.
“It was the only thing you could do,” she said. She rubbed his head. “He’s safe, and it was time for him anyway. I shouldn’t have brought him here at all last night.” She had him sit down with some toys in the play area—just a normal ten-month-old trying to figure out a ring stacker.
I croaked, “Um, we should tell you….”
“Where is she?” Ms. Dierdre asked.
“The closet,” Josie answered.
Ms. Dierdre opened the closet, and Alaina’s hand flopped out. My boss didn’t react much, like seeing dead bodies wasn’t a new thing for her. Very carefully, and with more strength than I would have imagined a woman of her size, she picked up Alaina’s body and carried her out of the room. A moment later I saw her putting the body in the trunk of her car outside. Josie was already cleaning the blood out of the closet.
“Where is she taking Alaina?” I asked.
“I don’t know,” Josie said, not meeting my eyes. “I don’t think I want to.”
The other moms pulled into the lot as Ms. Dierdre closed the trunk. I watched them talk with each other outside. Seeing them as a group, it was obvious from their mannerisms and features that they were all related. When they came inside, there were all kinds of sweet greetings and gratitude. Mrs. Gray brought us some donuts and coffee. I told Timber’s mother about her pulling up to stand and escaping from the crib. She looked nervously at Ms. Dierdre, who shook her head slowly. Timber wouldn’t be coming to werewolf day care again either.
Finally, all the moms and babies were gone except for Ms. Dierdre, who turned to Josie. “Now, show me that arm you’ve been tucking behind your back.”
Sheepishly, she pulled her arm out to view. It was very swollen and red around the bite mark. I couldn’t believe Josie had hidden that so well. I would have been crying.
Ms. Dierdre held the arm very tenderly and looked into Josie’s eyes. “I’m so sorry. You’ll need to come with me now. I’ll help you get through this.”
Finally, Josie let out one little sob and then bravely said, “All right.”
Ms. Dierdre led Josie to the classroom door. I followed them.
“Um, Ms. Dierdre?” I asked. “Do you mind if I call in sick today? I’m so tired.”
Honestly, I was pretty sure I was about to quit, but I’d start with being polite.
“Of course, Mallory,” she answered with a sweet smile that didn’t at all suggest that this kind-hearted woman who ran a day care could possibly be a blood-thirsty werewolf by night. “Rest up. ‘Cause I’m going to need you again tonight.”
“Tonight?”
“Full moons last three nights,” she said softly and then winked. “You’re my new lead teacher for the infant room. I’ll find you a good assistant.”
It felt like I just stood there and gawked at them for twenty minutes before I asked, “How much does it pay?”
“Fifty per hour good enough?”
And Mom thought I’d never get a good paying job without a degree.
“I’ll be here.”

The Mage and the Spotted Wyvern

A chill traveled up Drezzyk’s neck. He shivered, pushing his auburn hair out of his eyes before glancing around the thick forest. Drezzyk hadn’t fully learned how to use his magic, except for a few accidental spells, but he had a strong feeling in his gut that something was off.
“Master, something doesn’t feel right,” Drezzyk said.
“What is it?” Kelvnar asked with a composed expression.
“My neck has chills.”
Kelvnar smiled. “That could be just nervousness. You have much to learn about magic.”
Leaves crunched behind them. Drezzyk stopped abruptly, turning around. Nothing besides forest surrounded them.
“What is it?” Kelvnar asked.
“I heard something,” Drezzyk said.
Kelvnar sighed as he straightened his long yellow robes. “You’re just nervous after leaving Taelisph. They aren’t coming after you, boy. I’m sorry I had to leave you there, but the magic was being stubborn in you, and the only way I could get it out, was to force it. Do not fear; it should come easier now. It’s like a wagon, at first the wheels are stiff when they’re new, but the more you ride, the easier the wheels turn.”
“Master, it’s not that.” Drezzyk paused. “I’m sure something is there.”
“Something really has you rattled hasn’t it, boy?”
The frog in Drezzyk’s pocket stirred. He opened the pocket to retrieve his friend, but the frog hopped away into the bushes.
“Freckles!” Drezzyk called.
“You and that bloody frog.” Kelvnar chortled through his nose.
Drezzyk dropped to the ground, crawling toward the azalea bush in search of his red frog. More leaves crunched from behind. He spun his head around to find more than twenty large reptilian creatures standing on two legs approaching them. Drezzyk quickly stood, hitting his head on a tree branch hanging above him. He cursed under his breath and rubbed his head.
“Master,” Drezzyk whispered, “are those dragons?”
“No, they are descendants of dragons. They are called draeyks, but they are dangerous.”
Drezzyk gulped as he noticed his master tying his long, curly, white hair behind his back. He only did that when expecting a fight.
“Good morning,” Kelvnar began, “what can we do for you?”
“Coome withh uss,” one of the creatures hissed.
“I believe I’ll have to decline. Any business you have with us, you may discuss here.”
“Noo, coome orr diee.”
“Very well,” Kelvnar said.
He lifted his zylek, the wooden staff glowing gold, and pointed it toward the creature. Gold swirls of energy glided through the air, seizing the draeyk. It snarled in response, unable to move.
“Killl themm,” the creature said.
Kelvnar turned to his apprentice. “Now is the time for magic.”
Drezzyk stood, dumbfounded, unsure of what to do. He raised his hands, but his mind froze.  He had studied spells, but with the exception of his time in Taelisph, he’d been unable to use magic.
Kelvnar worked fast, spinning his zylek to shoot gold spheres of light at the creatures, knocking them backward. He defeated six of them with his magic before the rest reached him. The wizard repositioned his zylek, using it like a quarterstaff to block their sharp claws. He held them well, but his footing slipped on a rock.
“Drezzyk,” he called. “Help!”
The apprentice’s hands tingled, but otherwise, no magic formed for him. He shivered as he backed away. Two of the creatures shifted from Kelvnar and rushed at him. His hands trembled as he aimed them at his foes. He jerked his hands forward, desperation tugging at his mind. One of the draeyks halted, frozen in a blue aura. Drezzyk stood open-mouthed while he raised his arms skyward then slammed them back down, willing his magic to follow his lead. The creature’s body followed the motion of Drezzyk’s arms, first floating into the sky—shrieking all the while, before slamming into the ground. The second draeyk paused, glancing back to its companion before tackling Drezzyk.
The impact of the creature knocked his breath out. He rolled on the ground, dodging swipes from claws as he moved from left to right. Drezzyk reached to where a rock lay on the dirt, just out of his grasp. He squeezed his eyes closed, willing the rock to come to him. When he opened his eyes, the rock rolled into his hand. He clutched the rock, gritted his teeth, and smashed it against the creature’s reptilian snout. The draeyk shrieked as it rolled off of him. Drezzyk stood, continuing to beat the creature’s skull with the rock. It glowed blue in his hands, embedding itself with power, as he continued to drive the rock down, over and over. His eyes glowed blue, then his entire body followed, while he continued to smash the draeyk’s skull repeatedly. The creature stopped moving, but he didn’t cease hitting it.
Drezzyk finally exhaled and tossed the rock to the ground. He glanced around, but found nothing. Ten draeyks lay dead where his master had fought them, but all the others had vanished. He glanced at the two he had defeated, and back to the ten his master had fought. Where are the rest of them? He searched the area, finding only the strange footprints of the creatures with three claw marks webbed at the tip and one claw mark to the side.
“Drat,” Drezzyk said.
He put his hand on his pocket, remembering his missing friend.
“Oh, please, Freckles. You have to be here somewhere. I can’t do this alone.”
Ribbit.
Drezzyk’s neck tingled as he twisted his head from the left to the right frantically, searching for his friend. Please be all right, Freckles.
Ribbit.
Dashing forward, he moved rubble aside. His face burst into a wide grin when he spotted his friend, diving to retrieve the red frog.
“Freckles.” A loud rush of air escaped his lungs.
Drezzyk petted his frog gently, inspecting him for injury.
“You had me worried, Freckles. I thought for sure something had happened to you.”
Ribbit.
“I’m glad you’re safe.”
Ribbit.
“Do you think we should go after Master?”
Ribbit.
“I was afraid you’d say that.”
Ribbit.
“You’re right. I don’t know how far we’d get without him.”
He tucked the frog into his shirt pocket before finding his pack on the ground. Grabbing it, he began following the draeyk footprints. He wondered what the creatures wanted his master for.
They followed the tracks for several hours before Drezzyk decided to take a break. He sat on a log to catch his breath. Drezzyk let Freckles out of his pocket, and the frog promptly stuck out his tongue to grab flies. Thunder rolled in the sky a few minutes before rain sprinkled. Drezzyk let his head fall back, grateful for nature’s water. He opened his leather costrel as he focused his power, directing the rain to funnel into the small leather pouch. Even if he couldn’t always focus his magical ability to fight, he had learned a few useful skills. The light rain quickly turned to a tempest. Dark clouds rumbled with thunder and sharp cracks of lightning electrified the sky. Drezzyk grabbed his meager belongings and his trusty frog before rushing into the thick forest where fat raindrops pummeled his skin.
Drezzyk noticed a small cavern to the north. He ran to it, smiling until he lost his footing and slipped on a wet stone, tumbling to the ground. White-hot pain shot through his ankle. He gritted his teeth as he tied a piece of his robe around it. A few wet branches lay outside of the cavern. He slid himself over to grab them. Drezzyk broke the branches into pieces, moving them into a tepee in the center of the cavern. Concentrating on the branches, he held his hands toward them, wishing for warmth. His clothes were soaked through, and he shivered from the cold. The branches smoked, but no fire erupted. He closed his eyes, tensing his hands in front of him. They shook three times before he opened his eyes. A blue fire glowed on the now dry branches. Smiling, he rubbed his hands together in front of the fire.
He removed Freckles from his pocket and the frog hopped near the fire. Opening his pack, he removed a small black book entitled Spellweaving for Beginners. He’d been studying it for years, but magic still only came sporadically to him. It had been one of the things which frustrated his master, Kelvnar, more than anything. He read again about how important it was to use his emotions to fuel his magic and concentrate on a clear objective. Showing his emotions and concentrating, two things he’d never been very good at. However, he pressed on, knowing he’d need to use magic to free his master. He couldn’t let his incompetence seal his master’s fate.
Drezzyk held his hand in front of his face, palm up, to stare at it.
“Fire,” he whispered, trying to focus his emotions.
He focused on his hand, picturing the element he wanted, and trying to feel the emotion which went with it—anger. Drezzyk had never been an angry person. He growled as he tried to create the element.
“Firay. Fier. Flame. Flachè,” he said. A small spark formed in his palm, but disappeared.
He sighed. “Flaming frog hairs. I just can’t do it.”
Ribbit.
He glanced to Freckles. “What?”
Ribbit.
Freckles opened his mouth, his tongue flashing into the air with a flame escaping it. Drezzyk watched in awe. The red flame, two inches in length and one inch thick, shot through the back of the cavern, illuminating the rocky walls. It continued through the darkness for several long seconds before disappearing. Drezzyk raised an eyebrow, wondering how deep the hollow went.
“Freckles ... you can make fire?”
Ribbit.
“I’ll be a tickled frog belly. Even my frog can make fire better than me.”
Ribbit.
“Okay, Freckles. I’ll try again.”
Drezzyk took a deep breath, glaring first at Freckles, then at his open palm. Knowing Freckles could create a better flame infuriated him. When his eyes squinted hard enough for him to barely see, a blue flame appeared in his palm. His eyes widened as he stared at it. A broad grin spread across his face. The flame began to fade. He frowned and glared at the flame once more, pushing more anger into it. The flame glowed brighter.
“Wow!” he exclaimed, shaking his hand in front of him.
The flame shot forward through the air and into the darkness. The cavern grew even brighter than with Freckles’s flame. Drezzyk watched in fascination as the flame disappeared into the endless abyss.
He smiled, looking at his hand. “I did it.”
A low rumble echoed through the cavern. He glanced into the darkness. A growl preceded the rumble of approaching footsteps. Drezzyk stood abruptly, and then took a step backward.
Out of the darkness, there appeared a creature with blue scales and black spots, standing on two legs with two massive wings protruding from its body. It was reptilian, like the draeyks, but this thing was larger and had wings. The creature expelled a blue fog toward him. Drezzyk grabbed one of the burning branches and held it in defense. His fire froze, encased in ice, as was the rest of the branch. Drezzyk swiftly dropped the branch before stumbling from the cavern.
The rain poured over him as he came out of the cave. He kept his eyes on the entrance, backing away as fast as he could. He shivered from his rain-soaked clothes. The creature stepped to the opening and stared at him. Drezzyk struggled to remember his lessons on creatures of the land. At first, he thought it was a dragon, but he knew that was wrong. Dragons were larger with four legs. This creature only had two legs.
He gasped, “A wyvern....”
It roared into the storm—silencing the thunder surrounding them.
Drezzyk felt his pocket, noticing Freckles’s absence. He searched frantically and spotted the frog resting at the wyvern’s feet. He looked up at the creature, shivering.
“Freckles, hop!”
Ribbit.
Drezzyk’s eyes widened. The wyvern tilted its head before glancing to the ground. Its head arched downward until it rested inches from Freckles. The wyvern sniffed hard, nearly pulling Freckles from the ground.
Ribbit.
Bemusedly, the wyvern tilted its head the other way, staring at Freckles. Its mouth opened as a haze of blue frost escaped it.
“No!” Drezzyk screamed.
Freckles hopped away before turning to the creature with opened mouth to spit out fire. The red flame hit the wyvern’s jaw. A deep growl escaped the creature’s mouth.
Drezzyk ran back toward the cavern, his hands glowing blue. He pointed at the frog and the wyvern. Magic stormed from his fingertips in waves. The wyvern and the frog froze, immobilized by Drezzyk’s power. Drezzyk gaped, astonished he had used the spell successfully.
“That is enough,” Drezzyk said. “We are not here to fight. All we want to do is stay out of the rain.”
Sorry. A voice echoed inside of Drezzyk’s head, sounding like an iron gate being dragged over concrete.
“What?” Drezzyk asked. “Who said that?”
I did not mean to offend.
Drezzyk stared at the wyvern, eyes transfixed.
“You can talk?” he asked.
You can as well.
“Well, of course humans can talk. Humans can barely shut up, especially inside a pub. But you’re a wyvern.”
Yes.
“Okay....” Drezzyk brushed a hand through his hair.
Can you release I?
“Will you be good?”
Yes. Your friend intrigues I. Your power intrigues I. Respect is earned.
Drezzyk scrunched his eyebrows. Raising his shoulders, he let his power fade. Nodding to him, the wyvern sat by the fire, licking its arms. Drezzyk returned to the cavern to sit next to Freckles. He scooted closer to the fire, trying to warm himself from the rain outside.
“How many wyverns are there?”
I do not know. I have lived here three hundred years in peace by I self.
“Doesn’t that get lonely?” Drezzyk asked. “I don’t know what I would do on my own. I am glad to have Freckles with me.”
Sometimes. But it is peaceful as well.
Drezzyk rubbed his hands together by the fire. An idea sprang to him and he furrowed his brow.
“Do you ever think about getting out? Seeing what the world looks like now?”
I do not understand. The world surely looks the same. Humans fighting each other everywhere, and nature growing. Or, have such things changed? His head lolled forward, staring intently at Drezzyk.
“No ... I suppose not. Still, it is more exciting out there than sitting in a dark cave all the time.” It took every bit of his willpower for Drezzyk to not draw backward.
Exciting? I suppose. However, I do not enjoy excitement. I enjoy peace. Tell me, human, is there peace out there as well?
“Some.” Drezzyk sighed.
Tell me, human, why do you want I to leave? The wyvern began to lick his paw nonchalantly.
Drezzyk inhaled. “I need help. My master has been captured by draeyks. I need to free him, but I do not know if I am strong enough.”
It stopped and stared at the apprentice, its green eyes almost bulging from its head. You want I to help you?
Drezzyk nodded.
What do I receive in return? It squinted at the young magician.
“Honor?” Drezzyk asked. The wyvern at this moment reminded him of a snake poised to strike.
A rumbling growl repeated from the wyvern for several minutes. Drezzyk dropped his head and exhaled.
Honor means nothing for I. What can you offer me that I cannot achieve myself?
“Adventure?” Drezzyk paused. “I know you like peace, but peace is not allowed in my life. I am to be a mage. My life is to be an adventure. I want to help people. To save people. I want to end wars, to end conflicts. I don’t want the hate between humans. I don’t want the draeyks to hurt and kidnap humans anymore. All I want is peace, but the difference is, I have the courage to go out into the world and try and change it, while you hide in a cavern away from it. I am not strong, like you. I will die trying to achieve my goal, yet you will live because you choose to hide. I want your help; I do not want to die. We both want peace, we both don’t want war. But the only way I can see for us to truly accomplish that for this world, is by helping each other.”
The wyvern’s head tilted. You speak well ... for a human. You are right, I am a coward. Enlighten I human, why should I not freeze you into a slab of ice and shatter you into a million pieces for saying such words to I?
“Because Freckles and I intrigue you?” Drezzyk trembled. “What have you to lose? If you choose to come back, you can. But give me a chance to prove to you this world is worth saving.”
You want an alliance? Fine. I will give you thirty suns to change my mind that what we do makes a difference.
Drezzyk smiled. “Deal.”
When do we leave?
“Morning.”
Good. One more night of rest.
“What is your name?”
Kelvermore. And yours?
“Drezzyk. Good night, Kelvermore.”
Good night, human Drezzyk.
Drezzyk opened one eye as a chill breeze brushed across his face into the cavern. He yawned before standing to walk outside. The wyvern, Kelvermore, stood on his two legs while stretching wings into the brisk morning sun. Drezzyk smiled at the magnificent beast. The night before, he had known Kelvermore to be beautiful, but now that he saw the creature glistening in the sunrise, he fell speechless. The wyvern’s blue scales sparkled beyond any diamond.
“You are beautiful,” Drezzyk whispered.
Kelvermore turned around, tilting his head as he inspected the young mage.
Strange words. I assume they are a compliment.
“Yes, they are,” Drezzyk said.
Then, I accept them. Are we ready to go?
“Yes.” Drezzyk held his pack high.
Then he strolled past the wyvern, patting his pocket to double check for Freckles.
Where are you going?
Drezzyk spun around, his left eyebrow raising. “I’m going to search for the draeyks who took my master.”
Wouldn’t it be easier to ride my back?
“Are you sure?” Drezzyk asked, his eyes bulging.
It should be fine, as long as you hold on tight.
Drezzyk gulped. Kelvermore stepped toward him, lowering his head. Drezzyk stared at the wyvern’s neck for several long seconds before inhaling and climbing atop.
“Do you know where to go?” Drezzyk asked.
Kelvermore tilted his head. Draeyks are small lizards. They are easy to find. They smell bad.
Before Drezzyk could utter another word, Kelvermore spread his wings and leapt into the air. Wind immediately caught underneath the animal’s wingspan and he flapped them furiously. Drezzyk held on tighter, sweat beading down his face. His eyes drifted to the ground. He watched as the ground moved farther and farther away. His entire body trembled in such fear that he had to close his eyes.
After Kelvermore stabilized, Drezzyk opened his eyes to notice the trees a half a league below them. Kelvermore’s wings stretched out, but he only had to flap them every few minutes, choosing to glide on the wind. Once Drezzyk stopped shivering, he could appreciate the beauty of the forest below.
Kelvermore’s head tilted down and the beast dove to the ground. Drezzyk’s grip tightened as the wyvern descended into a small clearing in the forest. Kelvermore’s legs hit the ground hard, shaking the entire creature and Drezzyk on his back, causing his head to spin. He hopped off the creature as bolts of white-hot pain shot through his legs. Drezzyk gritted his teeth as he touched the inside of his legs, pain searing all the way through his body. The wyvern’s scales had cut through his breeches and into his skin.
“Look at what you did! You’ve torn my breeches, and bloodied my legs!”
Now is not the time.
Drezzyk glanced up, noticing he stood in a draeyk camp. At least forty of the creatures crowded around them, each snarling viciously. Drezzyk faltered, his eyes shifting left and right as he inspected his surroundings. He grabbed Freckles from his pocket and gently set the frog on his shoulder.
“Freckles,” he whispered, “I need you now more than ever. Show them that fire you created. We can defeat them.”
Ribbit?
“Well, we can try.”
We can defeat them, Kelvermore said.
Drezzyk gulped. “Set my master free, and I will leave you unharmed.”
The draeyks surrounding him tilted their heads before the first one snarled and leapt at him. Drezzyk was caught by surprise. He cupped his hand over Freckles on his shoulder as he dropped to the ground to roll forward. His hands turned blue as he stood. Anger surged through him, making the magic flow freely through his body. His anger boiled for these creatures taking his master, and for them threatening him, Freckles, and Kelvermore. He glanced to his right, spotting a long branch nearby. Concentrating, he closed his eyes. When his eyes opened, the glowing branch flew toward him. He caught it in his hands before stepping forward to smack the first creature in the jaw. Next to him, he saw Kelvermore slashing at creatures, one after the other, breaking the bones of the draeyks.
Drezzyk smiled. He held the branch like a quarterstaff. He fought fiercely as Freckles spat fire from his shoulder. The frog aimed for their eyes, blinding many of the creatures. Sweat poured over Drezzyk’s brow while he fought, but he didn’t feel fatigue. His makeshift quarterstaff held strong, powered by the magic surging through him. Soon, all around him, the drayeks fell. He turned, seeing one sneaking from behind Kelvermore. Drezzyk channeled his power into the branch before throwing it into the air. The tip of the branch sharpened as it flew in the air to penetrate the neck of the last draeyk.
As the creature shrieked, Kelvermore spun around to find the creature at his feet. Thank you.
Drezzyk smiled. “Anytime.”
A low rumble distracted him. He spun around to find twenty more draeyks charging them. Drezzyk’s eyebrows raised as he stared at his weaponless hands.
“Freckled frog feet,” he cursed.
Kelvermore flapped his wings and roared. A blue fog escaped his mouth, traveling slower than a turtle race.
Drezzyk watched with fascination as the fog froze all twenty of the draeyks to blocks of ice. He let his mouth fall agape.
Ribbit.
“Wow is right, Freckles.” He turned to the wyvern. “Why didn’t you do that before?”
Where would be the fun in that?
Drezzyk smiled. “So you are having fun?”
No comment.
Drezzyk chortled.
Where is your friend?
Drezzyk shook his head before peering around the camp.
“Master?” Drezzyk asked.
He searched the camp until he found a small wooden cage. Inside his master sat, hands bound, and snoring. Drezzyk smiled as it brought to mind the time his master snored through the worst thunderstorm of the year. It came as little surprise that he had slept through a rescue attempt and related brawl! Without proper use of his hands, or especially a zylek to guide his magic, his master was left defenseless. If he channeled his magic without a zylek, it wouldn’t have control as it came out, and would likely kill everything in a league radius, including himself. Drezzyk didn’t need a zylek. He wasn’t a wizard; he was a mage. Wizards had magic inside of themselves which they released, while mages used elements in the air around them as energy. Drezzyk knew he’d never be as powerful as his master, and training as a mage was much more difficult than if he’d been a wizard, but he wouldn’t trade it for the world.
He focused on the particles in the air, channeling them through himself, and out his hands, but the bars did nothing.
He sighed. “Drat.” He looked to the wyvern. “Kelvermore, help.”
The wyvern stepped next to Drezzyk. His claw swiped at the bars, tearing them apart.
His master, Kelvnar, opened his eyes.
“My boy, you found me,” Kelvnar said.
The young apprentice knelt to untie his bonds and noticed they glowed a faint red. Had they also been magical restraints?
Together, they staggered out of the cage to survey the carnage surrounding them. Kelvnar glanced to Drezzyk, eyebrows raised.
“You did all this?” Kelvnar asked.
Drezzyk grinned. “I had help.”
Kelvermore roared into the sky behind Drezzyk.
His master’s eyes bulged. “You befriended a wyvern?”
Drezzyk’s cheeks turned red. “It seemed the right thing to do.”
“You are stronger and wiser than I would have believed.” His master inspected the creature. “You are beautiful.”
Thank you. Kelvermore radiated to both of them.
“Ah, he has mind speech, too.”
“Yes,” Drezzyk said. “Master Kelvnar, this is Kelvermore.” Drezzyk paused, his head tilting. “My, this may get confusing.”
Kelvnar smiled. “Indeed, it may.”
Ribbit.
Drezzyk glanced to his shoulder, seeing Freckles watching him curiously. He looked back to his master. “Master, you’ll never believe it. Freckles can create fire.”
Kelvnar’s eyebrows furrowed. “Come now, do not jest. Now you must be seeing things.”
“No, honest.” He glanced to Freckles. “Come on, Freckles. Make fire.”
Ribbit.
“Freckles!”
Kelvnar laughed. “Come, it seems you need some rest. Your mind has wandered to the impossible. And you are behind on your lessons.”
Drezzyk glared at Freckles. “This is not over, Freckles.” He turned back to Kelvnar. “I can create fire, too.”
“Can you now?” Kelvnar raised a brow.
Drezzyk grinned sheepishly before concentrating on his hand. Nothing happened. He frowned. Still nothing happened. He gritted his teeth, but not even a puff of smoke rose from his palm.
“Snapping frog tongues,” Drezzyk growled. “I swear I did create fire.”
His master laughed, clasping him on the shoulder. “I believe you, my dear boy.”
“Why were those creatures after you, master?”
“They thought I had something, or knew where it was.”
“What?” Drezzyk asked.
“A magical stone.”
Drezzyk’s eyebrows rose. He exhaled softly, used to his master’s cryptic answers. “What does it do?”
“Cures the incurable.”
“Do you know where it is?”
“No ... I do not. But it seems someone wants it badly.” Kelvnar adjusted his robes.
“What do we do now?”
“We leave. You have much more to learn, and many more years before you are ready.”
“Ready for what, master?”
“You will know ... when it is time.”
Where are we going? Kelvermore tilted his head.
Kelvnar raised his eyebrows. “Wherever the road takes us.”

The Very Last Dragon

Once upon a time in a faraway kingdom, Sir Manly Strongarm decided to rid the land of every last dragon. “After all,” he told his war horse, Leonidas, “even though no one has seen a dragon in recent years, there could still be one lurking, waiting to menace young, beautiful maidens and, more importantly, sheep.”
For as long as Sir Manly could remember, he had dreamed of becoming a dragon slayer like his renowned father, who had died during the kingdom’s second-to-last civil war. Strangely, his father could single-handedly kill a dragon, but fell to the swords of men. That war happened during Sir Manly’s infancy and had grown into legend, reinforced daily by the battered red shield with its gold, strong-arm emblem which hung in the king’s great hall.
So without the king’s knowledge or permission, Sir Manly took up his own red and gold shield, patted his father’s dragon-killing sword in its sheath upon his belt, and mounted Leonidas.
“Come on, Leo. ‘Tis time we set out to do something besides training and eating and training some more. Something heroic.”
Leonidas snorted and shook his mane. The horse liked eating, after all. And training was not so bad either, especially when he and Sir Manly could gallop at full speed at the quintain. It was even more satisfying when Sir Manly’s lance missed the target and the weighted balance knocked the knight out of the saddle.
“This way,” said the knight, jerking on the reins. “We must take the northern road. Dragons will most likely be hiding in the mountains beyond the River Gorse.”
Since Leonidas almost always did what his knight commanded, the horse plodded north on the road leading to the distant Highlands.
The journey took several days. Sir Manly felt no great urgency to meet his destiny. Instead, he savored the fair weather of early summer. If night fell as he and Leo neared a town, they stayed at an inn, but most nights they camped beside a stream. While Sir Manly sat beneath the trees, watching the winking lights of fireflies and listening to the singing frogs, Leonidas ate his fill of wild grasses.
On the seventh day, the road began to wind upward into the foothills. Now, whenever Sir Manly saw peasants working alongside the road, he urged Leonidas to a smart trot and made a show of catching the peasants’ attention.
Several times a day, this was the exchange:
Sir Manly: “Greetings, peasants. Have you had any trouble with dragons in these parts?”
Peasant: “Beggin’ yer pardon, Sir Knight, but there be no dragons in our ‘shire.”
Undaunted, Sir Manly urged Leonidas to prance away with the horse arching his neck to show off his flowing mane.
After three more days of following winding roads by day and sleeping beneath the stars at night, peasants became more and more difficult to find. The rising hills grew desolate and wind-swept. Sir Manly began to think seriously about turning back, even though it went against his sense of honor to admit defeat.
His sigh became a gasp when a maiden with long yellow hair, wearing a patched green dress dashed into the road under Leonidas’s nose. The horse whinnied and reared, nearly dislodging Sir Manly.
“Young lady,” Sir Manly said, “have you no more sense than to step in front of a moving horse?” He brushed at some dust on his red and gold surcoat.
The peasant girl had fallen to the dirt, covering her head to protect it. At Sir Manly’s words, she looked up. “You’re a knight! You can help me!”
“Of course, I can help you.” Sir Manly straightened in the saddle. “What seems to be the problem?”
Leonidas snorted and stamped a front hoof, but the maiden did not appear to notice. She rose gracefully. Sir Manly thought she might be comely, if she washed the dirt off her face and hands and bare feet. And if she changed into a dress that wasn’t patched and two sizes too big. And, of course, if she brushed that tangled golden hair.
“Well, sir,” she said, “a dragon has been stealing my sheep.”
“A dragon?” Sir Manly’s pulse quickened. At last he would begin to live up to his father’s illustrious name! At last, his own name would be engraved on the marble dragon statue in the castle courtyard. He could see it now: Sir Manly Strongarm, Dragon Slayer.
“Yes, Sir Knight, a dragon.” The maiden’s voice interrupted Sir Manly’s reverie. “Last night the beast took our best milk ewe, and the flock is fast disappearing. I can’t go to my father and tell him because he is ill and would die of a broken heart at the news.” She sniffled and wiped at her eyes.
“How many of your sheep has the dragon taken?” Sir Manly asked.
The girl studied her dirty fingers for a moment and held up four on each hand. “This many.”
“Eight, eh?” Sir Manly frowned. “By now the beast will have developed a taste for mutton.”
“I can’t afford to lose any more sheep.” Now, the girl appeared ready to burst into tears. “Please, can you help me?”
Sir Manly hated to see anyone cry. His personal code of honor would compel him to offer his handkerchief, and invariably the weeping person would blow his or her nose, soiling the cloth. Then, of course, he would insist the person keep his handkerchief. He’d lost many of them over the years in this manner.
“I am a knight,” he said in his most confident voice, hoping to ward off the maiden’s tears and rescue his favorite handkerchief. “Point me in the direction the dragon was last seen, and I’m off to save the rest of your sheep.”
“But I haven’t actually seen the dragon, Sir Knight, though I’ve found claw marks.” The girl pulled something from her belt pouch. “And this.” She handed the object to Sir Manly. “Careful. The edges are sharp.”
Sir Manly gasped. A dragon scale! Glinting greenish-gold in the sunlight, it fit in the palm of his glove.
“I have an idea where the dragon might be living,” the girl continued. “There are many caves at the edge of our holding, and a few of them are big enough for a dragon.”
Sir Manly tore his gaze from the dragon scale to peer at the girl. “Have you a name, lass?”
She dropped a little curtsy. “Golda Drake. Only daughter of Wort.” Her lips curled into a smile. “He calls me Goldie.”
The knight tried to speak, but the words caught in his throat, and he had to clear it. “Wort Drake? THE Wort Drake?”
Goldie’s face brightened. “Have you heard of my father?”
Sir Manly snorted. “Good heavens, girl, your father’s deeds are legend in the South. Thank goodness our new king doesn’t hold grudges, like the former king did, or I might be compelled to arrest your father.”
“Arrest him?” She planted her hands on her hips and looked as if she might impale the knight with the daggers in her glowing eyes.
Sir Manly held up a gloved hand. “Not to worry, gentle maiden. The current king has pardoned your father of all charges, real and imagined. The Lion of the North may live out his days in peace.”
“Lion of the North?” The maid’s face twisted with annoyance. “Why wouldn’t they call him the Dragon of the North?”
“I didn’t give the name to your father,” Sir Manly said with a shrug. “I was only a babe in arms during the second-to-last civil war and a castle page during the last civil war.”
Goldie still regarded Sir Manly with suspicion. “So what are you going to do about the dragon?”
“Dragon. Oh, yes!” He returned the dragon scale to her. “Bless me, but I’ll have to go after it. Just point the way to the caves.”
The maiden shook her head, and her tangled hair fell over her shoulder. “It’s too difficult to explain. I’ll have to show you.”
Leonidas tossed his mane with a snort. Sir Manly hesitated. While he thought about how to tactfully dissuade her, Goldie got a running start and pulled herself up behind Sir Manly.
He turned his head. “That’s no mean feat, my girl.”
Goldie shrugged and gripped the back of the saddle. “My father taught me to fear nothing.”
Sir Manly sniffed, and his nostrils flared. Was that sulfur? “Pardon me,” he said, twitching his nose, “but do you eat a lot of eggs?”
“No. Why?”
“Never mind.” Sir Manly faced forward and nudged Leonidas. The horse locked his legs and bowed his head. “Leo! Forward!”
With a grumbling neigh, Leonidas began to walk. As they headed into the fields, Sir Manly wondered if there was more to this daughter of Wort Drake than he wanted to know.
Sir Manly gave Leonidas free rein, and the horse picked his way through the rocks, avoiding the many gopher holes pock-marking the area. After they’d crossed the fields, Goldie pointed out a game trail leading to an even rockier area. Soon, they worked their way down a path cut into the side of a cliff. Sir Manly had never been so thankful that Leonidas was sure-footed. Whenever the knight glanced down the sheer drop-off, his stomach lurched.
At last, they reached the bottom of a canyon. Goldie poked Sir Manly and pointed up at the rocky cliff. Several dark holes looked like promising dragon caves.
“Well, my girl, this is where we part company. I shall find your sheep thief and slay the beast.”
“I don’t think so, Sir Knight.” Goldie slid down from the horse’s tall back. “You may yet need my help.”
Leonidas nodded his head.
“What can you do, lass?” Sir Manly stared at the girl in confusion. “You have no armor, no shield, and no weapons. The dragon would tear you to pieces.” He should be able to locate and slay a dragon. After all, they were too large to easily hide for long. But the maid did have knowledge of this terrain and might prove truly helpful, even if she was a bit ... odd.
When Goldie smiled, she met Sir Manly’s gaze with the most piercing eyes he’d ever seen. They were an unusual shade of gold, and the pupils were not quite round. Sir Manly blinked away the sweat that dripped into his eyes. Surely he was seeing things in this heat. He shook off a feeling of dread and dismounted.
Once he felt steady on his feet, Sir Manly stared up at the caves and decided the largest would be the most likely place to find a dragon. He took a step toward it.
“Where do you think you’re going, Sir Knight?” Goldie balled her fists on her hips.
Sir Manly huffed in exasperation. “I believe the beast must be in this largest cave.”
“And, of course,” she said with a smirk, “you being the bold knight plan to clomp around the cave in your noisy armor and slay him while he sleeps? The dragon will hear you coming and burn you alive before you catch a glimpse of him in the dark.”
Sir Manly frowned. How could he admit he hadn’t actually thought that far ahead? Instead, he asked, “What do you suggest, young lady?”
Goldie scanned the sky. “Dusk will come soon. Dragons sleep in the day and hunt at night. If we wait here until then, the dragon should emerge from the cave. You can catch him by surprise.”
Sir Manly was not able to keep the annoyance out of his voice. “Just how do you know so much about dragons?”
The maiden turned to face him. “All of my sheep were stolen in the night. And aren’t dragons like very large, scaly bats? Bats sleep in the day and hunt at night.” When she grinned, Sir Manly blinked. Was the heat affecting his eyes again? For a moment, her teeth appeared sharp.
No matter, Sir Manly couldn’t refute her logic. “Very well,” he conceded with grudging respect. “We shall wait here until dusk.”
While they waited, Leonidas cropped grass nearby. Goldie picked a lapful of daisies and proceeded to make a chain with them.
Fighting drowsiness, Sir Manly decided he’d best walk around in order to stay alert, as well as use up some of his nervous energy. Shortly he would battle a dragon. At last he would prove his valor!
He pushed himself off the ground and paced back and forth. When the shadows lengthened, Sir Manly walked over to Leonidas as quietly as he could. Grasping the trailing reins, he led the horse to the other side of a boulder, out of sight of the cave. Then he took his strong arm shield off the horse’s saddle and headed back to Goldie.
She was nowhere to be found.
“Aggravating little wench,” he mumbled. After all her bluster and bravado, she had run away.
Just as well, he told himself. He needed no distractions when he met the dragon.
Placing his feet carefully to make as little sound as possible, Sir Manly crept toward the cave. He hid himself behind a rock near the entrance, slid his sword from the scabbard, and waited.
As the sun’s glow faded behind the hills, Sir Manly heard something moving deep inside the cave. Instead of coming closer to the entrance, however, the sounds morphed into a metallic clanging. Surely the dragon’s scales wouldn’t make that noise?
“What on earth is going on?” He stood and peered into the cave. A glow shone from around a distant bend. It bobbed up and down, as if someone were moving about.
Sir Manly entered the cave and followed the light. He stepped on something which made a loud crunch. When he looked down, a pile of bones and a sheep’s skull lay nearby.
Clutching his sword tighter, Sir Manly kept going. There were more bones, and now he could see the glitter of coins and jewels in bigger, neater piles than the bones. A dragon’s hoard! Sir Manly had always wondered if the legends were true. But why did dragons collect such things? They never went to market. They didn’t tithe on Sundays. And they didn’t pay taxes to the king. What use had a dragon for such valuable treasures?
The clanging became louder, and the light moved just ahead.
Sir Manly flattened himself against the wall of the cave. He held his breath and peered around the corner.
Goldie was cooking a meal over an open fire. She banged a metal spoon against the side of an iron pot and then stirred the bubbling contents. A lantern sat on a shelf of rock in the wall.
Breathing a sigh of relief, Sir Manly sheathed his sword. “What in blazes are you doing, young lady?” He strode toward the girl.
Goldie rose gracefully and smiled her toothy smile. “Making something to eat. Aren’t you hungry?”
“But where’s the dragon?” Sir Manly frowned. “This is a dragon’s cave, is it not?”
Before he could blink, Goldie shimmered by the flickering flame of her lantern. She transformed, growing taller and heavier. Her arms and legs grew scaly, and her nails lengthened into long, razor-sharp claws. A forked tail and bat-like wings sprang from her body, and her head and neck elongated, snake-like.
Sir Manly’s feet were rooted to the ground. His fingers fumbled for the sword, but he couldn’t seem to grasp the hilt. His mouth went dry and sweat beaded on his forehead. He braced himself for death by dragon flame or teeth or claw. The beast opened its mouth....
And the dragon laughed, an unnerving sound which echoed through the cave. Sir Manly stared at the huge open mouth, filled with sharp teeth. Was he being toyed with like a cat plays with a mouse before eating it?
Then an old man stepped into the light. Though advanced in years, muscles corded his bare arms. He crossed those arms across a barrel chest and stood proud, confident, like a man to be reckoned with.
“You be from the king?” he asked in a gravelly voice.
“I am Sir Manly Strongarm, and yes, I serve the king.” He glanced back at the dragon, who wore Goldie’s smile. It looked even creepier on her dragon face than it had on her human one.
“You were sent tae arrest me?” the old man continued.
“No!” Sir Manly held up his gloved hands. “The king did not send me at all. I was just, um, bored and decided to look for dragons.” He removed his helmet and clutched it under one arm.
“Looks like ye found one, didn’t ye?” The old man smiled almost as unpleasantly as the dragon.
“You must be Wort Drake.” Sir Manly coughed to cover his embarrassment, for his voice cracked on the name.
“Aye.” Drake’s bushy white brows came together in a frown. “What of it?”
“You need to know that the former king is dead, and his son who now reigns has already pardoned you.” Sir Manly wiped the sweat from his eyes.
Drake looked up at the dragon, who nodded. “Well,” he said, “if that be the case, then I suppose we’ll have tae let ye go.”
Sir Manly moaned in relief, but Drake was not finished.
“I dinna know what tales are bein’ told in the South about the civil wars, but know now that the North has ne’er seen eye-tae-eye with the South as it pertains tae the survival o’ the noble dragons.” He glared at Sir Manly. “Just don’t ye be tellin’ any of yer fellow knights about the very last dragon, or she’ll hunt ye down, tear out yer heart, and eat it.”
The dragon leaned forward until her snout nearly touched Sir Manly’s face. He stopped breathing when he smelled the sulfur on her hot breath. It was difficult to remember what the maid Goldie had looked like.
Sir Manly took a step backward. “Dragon? Did someone mention a dragon? Never saw one in my life.”
The knight blinked when the dragon’s scales sparkled in the firelight. The long neck twisted inward while the tail snaked around, growing smaller. Finally, the folded wings melted into the human form of what Sir Manly had once thought a comely maiden. He rubbed his eyes and stared at her.
Goldie glided closer and smiled at Sir Manly. She reached up and twined her long fingers in his sweaty hair. “You find me attractive, don’t you?”
With a squeal of alarm, Sir Manly pulled away from Goldie and shoved his helmet upon his head.
Drake guffawed, and the dragon laughed as well. “Then begone with ye, dragon slayer!”
Sir Manly turned and ran past the dragon’s hoard and the sheep bones. It was full dark now. At the cave’s entrance, the knight tripped over a rock, slid down a sharp drop, and landed painfully on one knee. He limped over to Leonidas, pulled himself into the saddle, and urged the horse away.
As they ascended the steep trail, Sir Manly risked a glance back. A shape, as of a large bat, flew high into the sky, dark against the glow of the rising moon.
“Well, Leo,” he said with a sigh. “If she is the very last dragon, we were born too late to be dragon slayers.”
Leonidas snorted and tossed his head. He placed one sure hoof ahead of the other until they were well away from the caves. It was back to the castle, back to training and eating at last.
And even now in that country, on a cloudless night, you might catch a glimpse of what appears to be an over-sized bat. If you do, it would be prudent not to investigate too closely.

The Adventures of Zero: The Quest for Wormsroot

“Come on, Zero! Not afraid, are you?” shouted Ryn.
Our ball was stuck high in a tree. The tree was broad and could probably support my weight, but the ball was so high up that it was hard to see. How had it got to that height?
I’d had the ball in my hands, safe and sound, and was about to throw it back to the older boys when a bird swooped down and stole it. The creature soared into the air and wedged the ball into the crook of a tree, then swooped around and around, laughing at me.
“Oh, forget it; he’s too scared!” said someone else.
“Maybe he wants to run home and get his brother’s help!” jeered another boy.
I shook my head to clear the daydream and approached the tree. “Fine!” Of course, no bird had taken it. Dung-headed Ryn had kicked it up there when another boy had bet him he couldn’t kick it over the tree. Since I was the smallest and weakest of the group, it was decided that I’d go up. As always, they hadn’t asked my opinion of this decision, since that was of no interest to anyone.
The lowest branches were an easy leap. As I pulled myself up the tree, I saw a small mammal higher up. It was gray, with a big, bushy tail. It seemed to dance its way up the tree, daring me to follow, and I gave chase. I was determined not to let it get away from me. I might be smaller than the other kids, but I could surely beat this rodent!
It quickly lost me, and in my pursuit, I’d lost track of the ball. I couldn’t even do that much right.
“I can’t see the ball! Where is it?” I called out.
“The other side of the tree from you, and a bit higher!” was the reply from below. It sounded very far away.
I dared not look down while working my way around the tree to the other side. Sure enough, there was the ball, just out of reach. With a sigh, I climbed up a few more branches. As I reached for the ball, a loud crack resounded through the air.
This was not good. I risked a look downward, realizing the ground was too far away to jump; much too far.
CRACK!
With a second crack, the tree began to tilt.
CRACK!
With a final crack, it began to fall. The ground started rushing towards me, and I knew I was in trouble. As fast as I could, I scrambled around the tree to the side farthest from the upcoming ground. It was at a steep angle, enough to get my feet under me as I rode it down.
Just as the tree was about to hit the ground, I leaped from it, pushing hard with my legs, soaring clear and landing in a perfect dive roll to come up on my feet. The kids all cheered, and for a moment, I felt like a king.
At least, that’s what I meant to do and what should have happened. I did jump and attempt to roll, but the landing involved bouncing, sliding, and scraping rather than any kind of graceful maneuver. Nor was there any cheering, just cries of alarm.
“Zero!” someone called as my friends came rushing over.
“Are you all right?” asked Ryn. He was about my age but at least a hand’s breadth taller, if not two. Everyone was taller than me, the runt, the adopted son of a blacksmith.
“Yeah,” I lied. I felt woozy, and my leg screamed with pain when I tried to stand up.
“You don’t look it,” he said. I was sure there was genuine concern in his voice; at least, I wanted to believe that and decided it was true.
I shook my head to clear it, but that just made things worse and the ground rushed up to meet me. Why did it do that?
“We’d better take him to the healer,” said a female voice, probably Rose; she was the logical one. I couldn’t make my eyes focus to be sure. There was a persistent ringing in my ears, too, so it was hard to guess who was speaking.
“I’ll be fine,” I said and winced as I heard the slur in my words. I tried to stand up, but the world wouldn’t stay steady, and I fell again. This time, someone caught me.
“I’ll carry him. Run ahead and tell the healer we’re coming,” someone said in a deep voice which I couldn’t place.
“Hang in there, Zero,” a soft voice added.
The world was moving around me in a strange way and was far too bright. I couldn’t focus my thoughts, and my stomach felt ready to rebel.
“Where am I?” I couldn’t remember how I had gotten to wherever I was. It was too bright to tell, and my mind felt sluggish. Had I just woken up? When was breakfast?
“Easy now, we’re almost there,” said the owner of the deep voice. Was it my father?
“Dad? Mom? I can’t see!” My voice wasn’t working right. I couldn’t even understand my own words, so how would anyone else?
“Lay him down over there,” came a familiar voice. “What happened?”
“He was climbing a tree, and it fell. He jumped clear, but I think he hit his head.”
“Go and fetch his parents, and the rest of you get out. I need room to work,” said the owner of the voice, who sounded older. I felt I knew him, but it was hard to think through the fog in my head.
Time passed, or seemed to. Everything went dark for a while, then the light in the room slowly returned. My mind cleared, and the room settled around me.
I was in the healer’s hut.
As my mind cleared, memory flowed back. I must have been hurt when the tree fell, and Ryn had carried me here.
I started to sit up, then someone called, “Not yet, son.”
“Yes, sir,” I replied and lay back down.
My head hurt, and most of my body was sore, but it was bearable now. The healer must have worked his magic on me again. Was this the tenth time he’d had to treat me or the eleventh? Well, at least I was keeping him in practice.
“Now, how did you end up here this time?” asked Healer Tanyl.
“Our ball was in a tree, and I climbed up to fetch it, but the tree came down when I reached the top.”
“Well, at least this time your story matches your friends’,” he grumbled.
I could hear him banging around the shop but couldn’t see him. He was probably cleaning up after working on me. I knew much of what he did, but I had yet to discover how he worked his magic. He always sent me away when he used it on others, and I’d never been in any condition to pay attention when he’d used it on me.
“I’ve used most of my remaining wormsroot on you,” he said.
“I’ll get you some more,” I offered.
“No need,” he said, moving away to work elsewhere.
Even with the healer’s magic, it was a full week before I could move about without getting dizzy. Ryn and the others had lots of fun with that, once they knew I was going to be okay. Ryn and Rose had rushed to my side when I was hurt, though, and that showed they did care about me.
My father was a blacksmith, and my older brothers helped him in the forge but not me. I was the runt of the family; too small, too weak and too late. Most days I was ignored, but sometimes I was sent on errands too trivial for the others. Today was one of the days when I had no jobs to do, so I headed for the healer’s hut.
“Did you fall again?” Healer Tanyl asked as I entered. He was bending over, using a mortar and pestle to grind up a reagent. By the scent, I was sure it was fronseweed. The bittersweet smell filled the room and reminded me of the many days I had sat and watched him when I was younger. He never paid me much heed, no one did, but I had studied him. For over a decade I had studied everything he did, everything he read, and everything he said. I was as ready as I would ever be.
“No, I just wanted to see if I could help you,” I responded.
He stopped what he was doing and looked up at me. “How can you help?”
“You’re grinding fronseweed. It’s a root found in the marsh where the drier land meets the mud. The flower is yellow with a white pistil. It’s used in mixtures to dull the senses.”
His eyes widened. He lifted a jar from the table and said, “And this?”
“Buckwart, found in tropical regions growing on the shaded side of trees. It’s used to sweeten drinks and often to make medicine taste better.”
He repeated the exercise a dozen times, then stopped and asked, “How do you know all this?”
“I’ve been studying you for years,” I told him. It was more than that. I had taken careful note of all the reagents that he used on a regular basis, and memorized all the facts I could find about them. My mom had even gotten me a copy of one of the books I’d seen Healer Tanyl using for reference. I had studied that book for several years in preparation for this day.
“Why?”
I sighed. I’d been right: he’d never noticed me. So much for that dream. “I was hoping that one day you would ask me to be your apprentice.”
He shook his head and returned to his grinding, working in silence for a while. Then, just as I had decided to give up and go home, he gestured to the cabinet where he kept the reagents he used regularly. “Organize that for me.”
I walked over to the cabinet, which was in a terrible state. Most of the jars were open, none were labeled, and many were stacked so hazardously that I was afraid even to breathe near them.
I almost asked him what had happened in here, since it wasn’t like him to be so careless, but thought better of it. Unsure where to start, I took everything out of the cabinet and organized it on a nearby table. Seeing a rag, I wiped down the shelves and then put the jars back in, grouped first by how they were used and then alphabetically by name.
As I finished he came over and looked at my handiwork. “Huh. You do know a lot about these reagents.”
“You’re a bit low on sulfur, wormsroot, and mandrake,” I noted.
“The caravan will be in town tomorrow, and I can buy more,” he said, rubbing his chin. “Do you really want to be my apprentice?”
“Yes.”
“Huh.” He eyed the cabinet and looked back at me. “What do you get if you take the dust of black pearl and firestone and mix with a sulfur suspension?”
“A very stinky explosion,” I said.
“Huh.”
He looked back over at the cabinet. “You’re serious about this, aren’t you?”
“Very much so,” I replied.
“Huh.”
He was quiet for a time and then looked at me. “There’s more than head knowledge to this.”
“Teach me, then,” I said.
“Do you know where to find wormsroot?”
I nodded. “It only grows in Timiren’s Valley. It must be harvested by the full moon or it will lose its potency.”
He pulled down another jar from the cabinet. “And this?”
I looked at it and almost snapped off the answer, but something held me back. I rocked it back and forth in my hand, watching the grains pass over each other. It looked right and smelled right, but there was something wrong.
“Stumped?” he asked.
“No, it’s wormsroot, but there’s something wrong with it.”
“And that is?” His voice held a note of surprise. I wasn’t sure if that was good or bad.
“I’m not sure. It looks and smells right, but there’s something the matter with it.”
He took the jar and replaced the top. “It was harvested under the new moon and is therefore worthless.”
“Then why do you have it?” I asked.
“It’s safe to consume but tastes foul, so makes a good placebo,” he said with a grin. He grew serious again. “But you could tell. How?”
“I don’t know.”
“So you’re finally at a loss for an answer?”
“I guess so.”
“Huh.”
He searched another cabinet and came out with a scroll, which he spread out on the table. It was a chart of the cycles of the moon for the rest of the year.
“This cost me a week’s earnings, so be careful with it. I want you to make an exact copy. Be careful to get everything right.”
I could read, but I was doubtful about my ability to perform this task. I hadn’t written very much in my life; the need hadn’t arisen. I wanted this position as his apprentice, however. It was that or a life as a useless runt in a house of blacksmiths.
I took a deep breath and then another. I had to focus on this task. No looking out the window or watching clouds; I needed to concentrate.
Looking around, I found a table where I could sit with my back to the window with nothing of interest in front of me and slowly began to copy the chart. As I made each stroke of a symbol or number, I compared it to the original. The room darkened around me, but I didn’t stop. It was painfully slow, and my wrist and back ached, but I kept on writing.
As it started to become too dark to work, I felt a hand on my shoulder. I looked up at the healer.
“The sun is about to set; you had better go home,” he said.
I had copied about half the chart. “I’ll come back tomorrow to finish this.”
“Tomorrow I’ll be out. I need to buy sulfur and mandrake, as you noticed.”
“And wormsroot,” I added.
“No, the caravan that will be here tomorrow doesn’t sell that. I’ll have to send someone to the city for it.”
That would triple the price of the expensive root. “I’ll get you some.”
His eyebrows lifted. “Really?”
I took an empty container from the counter. “I’ll fill this and trade it for an apprenticeship.”
“Do you have any idea how much that is worth?” he asked.
I nodded. “I’ve studied the price sheets. This much wormsroot would cover my apprenticeship at the normal rate.”
“Huh.” He leaned over and looked at the work I was doing. “This is very good work.”
“Thank you.”
“If you can raise the money, either by that jar of wormsroot or other means, I’ll give you an apprenticeship.”
“Thank you!” I yelled and ran for home. I was sure I heard a “Huh,” as I left.
The next morning, I went looking for my father before sunrise. He was talking with my mom about their plans for the day. When he noticed my presence and greeted me, I said, “Dad, I have to leave for a few days.”
“Oh? Where are you going?” he asked.
“I’m running an errand for Healer Tanyl,” I said.
“And why are you doing this for him?” he asked.
“Because he’s going to make me his apprentice,” I said with a huge grin.
“Healer Tanyl is taking you on an apprentice?” he said with amazement. “Why, I bet every kid in town has tried to get that position. How did you manage it?”
“Healer Tanyl must have noticed how brilliant he is,” said my mom proudly.
“I haven’t definitely got the job yet, but this errand will clinch it,” I said.
He nodded thoughtfully and said, “That makes sense. Take the crossbow and some provisions with you. Opportunities like this don’t come often. Take whatever you need to secure that apprenticeship.”
“Thank you!” I said and ran off to pack.
As I left, I heard my mom say, “What are you doing? He’s too young to go off alone like that.”
“He will remain too young until he does. You have to let him become a man,” responded my father.
It was a common argument between them. She was always trying to keep me safe, and he was always trying to make a man out of me. I sighed, knowing that they each loved me in their own way.
I didn’t wait for the rest of the conversation, since I knew if I did my mom would stop me and insist that I take along my older brothers. It would be more a case of them taking me on this errand, and that would not prove my ability to Healer Tanyl. Mom meant well, but my father was right; I needed to do this myself.
I took the crossbow, some bolts, some clothes, and all the provisions I could stuff into my sack. If things went well, it should only take a few days to hike out to the valley and get the wormsroot, then a few more days to hike back. Still, it would be good to have company for the hike.
I shouldered my pack and walked to where Ryn lived with his sister Rose. I wasn’t sure if I had any real friends, but they were the closest I had.
They lived in an orphanage near the town’s outskirts, the same orphanage where my parents had found me. I was too young to remember that day, but my mom often spoke of it. Since we didn’t know my real birthday, we celebrated that day instead. In a way, it was my birthday. It was the day I had gained a family, and the best day of my life.
Ryn and Rose were not so fortunate. They had entered the orphanage as older children, and they seemed to rebel at any attempts to place them in homes. The story they told everyone was that their parents were famous warriors who had been killed in a battle, but no one really believed them. Most likely they’d just been abandoned, like most of the kids in the orphanage. The hero story was cool, though, so everyone played along with it.
What was true was that they knew how to live in the woods. Several times over the years, they had left the orphanage and traveled into the wilds. They’d been gone for weeks at a time and then suddenly came back. They didn’t talk about what they’d done, and after a while people stopped asking.
It would be cool to be a famous warrior. I could see myself racing up a hill, holding a sword over my head and approaching the enemy. I screamed out a battle cry and charged. My men struggled to keep up, and that was good. I would take the brunt of the enemy’s first volley.
Stumbling into a tree shattered my daydream. Thankfully, this time no one was around to see. With a sigh, I kicked some stones and pressed on towards the orphanage.
I found Ryn and Rose behind the building, throwing rocks at a grizzled old tree. The tree had been struck by lightning at least three times and was quite dead, but it refused to fall over. The blackened husk was at least three times my own height, and if any balls got stuck in it, they could stay there. That was for sure.
Rose and Ryn were pretty much my opposite in every way. They were tall, with broad shoulders and fair hair. Rose always wore hers in a ponytail, while Ryn kept his roughly cut at about shoulder-length. They both had fair skin and green eyes. They usually wore clothing made from random pieces of torn leather they had found, and were almost always together.
“Hey!” I greeted them as I approached.
“Zero! Good to see you finally remembered how to walk,” commented Ryn.
“What’s the sack for? Going somewhere?” asked Rose.
“Yes, and I was hoping you’d come with me,” I said.
“Where to?” asked Ryn.
“Into the wilds. I need to collect some roots for Healer Tanyl,” I said.
“It looks as if you expect to be gone for a while,” commented Rose.
“At least a few days, perhaps a week,” I said.
“Sounds good to me. Let’s go,” said Ryn.
“Beats sitting around here,” agreed Rose.
“Definitely,” I replied and we started walking towards the wilds.
As soon as we were out of sight of the town, Ryn stopped. “We need to pick up our stuff first,” he said. “Stay here; it’ll just take a few minutes.”
Rose and Ryn ran off, and I quickly lost sight of them. I had assumed they were going to pick up things from the orphanage, but they went off in a completely different direction.
The sun had risen another finger’s breadth before they returned. When they’d left me they had been wearing scrap leather, but they came back in studded leather armor with massive hammers slung on their backs. At their waists, various bags were attached to their belts, including a pair of canteens each. The equipment appeared to be in very good condition. I knew enough from my father’s forge to recognize high-quality weapons when I saw them.
Ryn was also carrying a staff in one hand, which he tossed to me. “Take this. I’ll teach you to use it as we go.”
I didn’t know what to say, so I thanked them, and we headed down the trail.
After we’d walked for a while, I finally asked, “Where did you get all this?”
“Our parents left it for us. We keep it hidden out here where thieves won’t find it,” said Ryn.
“With all this gear, though, why are you living in an orphanage?” I asked.
Ryn shrugged. “Have to live somewhere, and it’s as good a place as any.”
Rose smacked him in the back of the head, and said, “That’s where our parents left us years ago when they went on an important mission. They promised they would be back.” She paused to take a deep breath, and I saw that her eyes were moist. “At first we stayed in the hope that they’d come back for us, but now it’s kind of become our home.”
I wasn’t sure what to say to that, but I was sure that this was part of their real story. The uneasy silence continued until Ryn began his normal banter.
The two of them filled the walk with their constant joking until Ryn commented, “It’ll be dark soon. We need to find a place to camp.”
I looked around and shrugged. “Does it have to be anywhere special?”
He blinked at me, then looked over at Rose and back to me. “Have you never been out here before?”
“Sure, lots of times, just never overnight.”
“You really do need us,” said Ryn. He looked around for a moment and said, “Head towards that clump of trees. We can make camp there.”
Once we reached the trees, they got to work building a fire and explaining to me about the necessity of setting watches. Ryn started to teach me the staff while Rose set traps: for breakfast, she claimed.
After it grew too dark to practice, we gathered around the fire. Ryn asked, “Where exactly are we going?”
“I have to get some wormsroot for Healer Tanyl.” I rooted in my pack and pulled out the container. “Enough to fill this.”
“Why not just buy some? We can take you to the city where I’m sure a dozen shops stock that stuff,” commented Rose.
“This is very expensive. I could work for a year and not earn enough to fill this container.”
“So we collect it, then. Okay, where?” asked Ryn.
“It has to be harvested under the full moon, and grows in only one place around here,” I told them.
“When is the next full moon?” asked Rose.
“Two days from now,” I said.
“And where are we going?” asked Ryn.
“Timiren’s Valley.” It was too dark to see but that seemed to get a reaction from them.
“Are you serious?” asked Ryn.
“No, he’s just pulling your leg,” said Rose.
“I am serious,” I said.
“But do you know what’s in that valley?” asked Ryn.
“Wormsroot,” I replied.
“That’s not all,” said Rose in a hushed voice. “The cat people live there.”
“Cat people?” I queried.
“Werecats,” said Ryn.
“So?” I asked.
“So I hope you like being ripped to shreds and eaten raw!” said Ryn.
“Do you know what werecats are?” asked Rose.
I shrugged. “Well, based on the name, I guess they’re people who turn into cats during the full moon.”
“According to legend, when great warriors fall in combat, if they have pleased the god of the forest they can choose to come back as werecats: humans with the ability to take on the form, speed and strength of a jaguar.”
“Come on, you don’t actually believe that?” I asked. I had heard the legend. The cat people were said to be vicious hunters who lay in wait for hapless travelers to enter their territory and then sprang out and ate them. It sounded like a story invented to make kids too scared to wander off, and I had never believed it.
“Think about it, Zero. All the strength and power of a jaguar, and the intelligence of a man,” said Ryn.
“Oh, they’re real. Very much so,” said Rose.
“Look, I just have to gather enough wormsroot to fill this container and get it back to Healer Tanyl.”
“Why?” asked Ryn.
“Because if I do, he’s agreed to take me on as his apprentice,” I said.
“You?” gasped Ryn.
“Healer Zero; there’s almost a musical sound to it,” said Rose.
“Yes, me. Please don’t back out now; I need to do this,” I pleaded.
“How deep into the valley do we need to go?” asked Ryn.
“Not very far. Wormsroot’s quite abundant in there. I’m not sure why it’s so expensive.”
“Probably because most people who try to harvest it end up as dinner for the cat people,” said Ryn.
“How much will that container be worth when it’s full?” asked Rose.
“It will cover my entire apprenticeship,” I told her.
She whistled.
“The entire thing?” asked Ryn in astonishment.
I nodded. “Please, this is my big chance!”
They looked at each other, and Ryn shrugged. “If we wait as long as possible to get close and stay on the edges, we should be able to gather some roots and get out unnoticed—I hope.”
We arrived at the valley a day early, so Ryn spent that time trying to teach me how to defend myself with the staff. His idea of teaching involved telling me what to do, then laughing and making jokes whenever I got it wrong.
When the sun was directly overhead, we scouted out the edge of the valley. It was eerily quiet as we pushed through bushes looking for a suitable area to find wormsroot. It would grow where the ground was moist and exposed to direct moonlight.
“Is this it?” whispered Rose.
She was standing near the edge of a mossy area, partially shaded by the nearby trees. I carefully made my way there, making sure I didn’t step on any wormsroot.
“You said it would resemble lots of little worms just under the surface, and that’s what this looks like,” said Rose.
“Wow!” I gasped. She was standing at the edge of a large patch of wormsroot. There was more growing in this patch than I had ever seen, even in pictures; more than enough to fill Healer Tanyl’s container. “Yes, this is perfect.”
“Let’s go back to camp and rest. We’ll come back when the moon is high enough in the sky to give us light,” said Ryn.
He led the way back out of the valley and up over a hill. Behind the hill, we made camp and returned to staff practice for a while.
As night approached, Ryn said, “You should get some sleep. We might have to run all night after picking the wormsroot.”
“You’re still talking about the ‘cat people’ legend?” I shook my head in disbelief.
“It isn’t just a legend. Look, I’m serious. The cat people are real, and you’d better be ready for them. I think that patch might be close enough for us to pick the root and get away before they notice us, but you’d better be ready to move fast.”
His tone was more serious than I’d ever heard before. Something about this valley really concerned him; the cat people myth, or maybe something else.
I shrugged and climbed into my bedroll. “Wake me when it’s my turn to keep watch.”
I was tired enough from working with the staff but not ready for sleep. I lay back and studied the sky. It was easy to find patterns and shapes in the stars, and soon I was watching great battles between heroes and monsters.
After what seemed like a few seconds of daydreaming, Ryn was shaking me and the moon had moved from the horizon to directly overhead.
“What?” I muttered.
“It’s time to gather your worms,” he said.
“Wormsroot,” I corrected him, grumbling. I pulled myself out of the bedroll and tried to wake up as I packed my things.
Rose brought me a canteen and some dried meat. “Here, drink now and eat as we go.”
She left to see to her packing, which gave me a moment to move around and try to clear my mind. Images of the war in the stars were still bouncing around my head. When I’d fallen asleep, they had followed me into my dreams.
I gasped as I tripped over a rock near the edge of the camp. Winded, I pushed myself up onto my knees, my head cleared by the fall. As I placed my hand on the ground to push myself upright, I had to stifle another gasp.
Before me lay a paw print, just like any left by the various cats around town except for one major difference: these prints were bigger than my hand. The cat that left them must have been massive.
Was this real? It couldn’t be. No cat is that big. Ryn must have put it here to scare me. Well, I wouldn’t let him have that satisfaction. I would act as if I hadn’t even seen it.
“Are you all right?” he asked.
I stood up the rest of the way. “Sure. Are we ready to go?”
He nodded, and we headed off. When we reached the mossy area where the wormsroot grew, I handed each of them a bag. “Put as many as you can in the bag. We can sort them out tomorrow in the daylight.”
They nodded and got to work, all business tonight. There was no joking, no mock fighting, just rapid gathering of roots. Something really was bothering them and this worried me, so I also worked as fast as I could.
A low rumbling growl from the woods caused the blood in my veins to freeze. Ryn and Rose stood up slowly, dropping their collection bags and drawing their hammers. They were like mirror images, dropping into a fighting stance with their backs angled towards each other. They held their massive hammers in front of them, just above the shoulder, ready to strike.
I looked past them to the source of the growl. At the edge of the woods stood three huge jaguars, their black fur glistening in the moonlight and their bright yellow eyes boring through me.
I lifted my crossbow and released the safety catch. I would only get one shot. Hopefully, Ryn and Rose could take one jaguar each. My mind was unnaturally clear as the danger of the moment washed over me.
“Take the bags and run,” said Ryn.
He and Rose moved past the bags and towards the great cats.
I snatched up the bags, tied them shut and attached them to my belt while the standoff continued between the two humans and the three cats. Once the bags were secure I took aim again with the crossbow, backing up slowly so that I’d have time to shoot when the cats charged. They would be fast and accurate.
“Run,” hissed Rose.
I knew running was pointless. A jaguar would catch me before I’d taken five strides.
The decision was taken from me as all three cats leaped as one, each towards a different human. My crossbow was already on target, which was just as well because otherwise I’d never have released the shot in time. The bolt struck the jaguar under its right shoulder, and it cried out in pain. I dove to the side to get out of its flight path.
Despite being in pain and wounded, when it hit the ground, it seemed to fold in on itself and launched off at a new angle right towards me. I tried to get out of the way but this time the cat caught me, knocking me to the ground. Stars danced in my vision as the beast bit my shoulder.
Searching for anything I could use, in a panic, my hand chanced on a rock. I smashed it as hard as I could into the side of the cat’s head, over and over, until it released me.
I tried to scramble away, but the powerful paws pressing into my chest ensured I couldn’t move. The cat roared, and I was sure it was going to bite me again, but a golden colored streak slammed into the side of it, sending it tumbling away.
As I tried to get to my feet, dizziness swept over me. I felt very cold. I couldn’t feel my left arm anymore, and that meant the wound was serious.
The battle raged around me, and I knew I had to get clear. I scanned the clearing and saw not only three black jaguars but two massive lions, one male and one female.
The lions stayed between me and the jaguars. They worked as a team, just as the three others did against them. They seemed far more intelligent than I would have thought possible for an animal.
The jaguars tried several charges, but broke off as the lions turned to meet them. Each time they seemed ready to fight, the jaguars backed off. It was as if they were reluctant to hurt the lions, but that didn’t make sense. The lions didn’t counter-attack, they just paced back and forth between me and the jaguars.
Rose and Ryn were nowhere to be seen, which puzzled me. I knew they would never have left me there alone; for all their ribbing, they were always there for me when I was hurt or in trouble.
The male lion stood his ground, but the lioness paced over to me. Her bright green eyes were somehow familiar. Before I could make the connection, she knelt down for me to get on her back.
She was large enough to carry me, so I moved slowly towards her and climbed on. Then she stood up and started running. I held on as long as I could with only one arm, but at some point I fell off and then there was only darkness.
When I came to, the sun was a full hand’s breadth above the horizon, and Ryn was standing watch. Rose was nowhere in sight.
“Ugh,” I groaned and tried to sit up.
“Easy,” said Ryn.
He came over and helped me to sit and then drink some water. As he did, I noticed his brilliant green eyes. It couldn’t be—could it?
“Where’s Rose?” I asked.
“She’ll be back soon. Eat and drink. You need to rest after last night,” he said.
My shoulder decided this would be a good time to remind me of my injury. It felt as if it were on fire. I cried out in pain, and my eyes watered. I forced myself to take some deep breaths.
“Shoulder?” he asked.
I nodded.
“We cleaned it as best we could, but we don’t have anything for the pain. We need to get you to Healer Tanyl.”
“I’ll be fine. Do we have the wormsroot?” I asked through gritted teeth. Healer Tanyl’s magic would take care of the injury; I just had to endure it until then.
“Over there, waiting for you.”
Gritting my teeth against the pain, I worked my way over to the bags. With my good hand, I began sorting through what we’d collected. I was surprised at the quantity we had gathered.
I tossed out everything that wasn’t wormsroot, and then sorted the usable roots from the unusable ones. As I was working, Rose returned and came over to me.
She sat down opposite me, and her vivid green eyes met mine.
“Sorry I couldn’t hold on for longer,” I said, taking a chance that I was right about what had happened last night.
She sighed. “How’s the shoulder?”
“Feels like it’s on fire, so it’s probably infected,” I said.
She nodded.
“So you two are cat people?” I said, wanting to know more.
She smiled and nodded. “The jaguar clan rules this valley. We come from the lion clan. Our people are nomads; we wander the lands in family groups while these jaguars, unlike their natural brethren, are fiercely territorial and loyal to their jamboree.”
“I really thought you were joking, you know, just teasing me,” I said. My mind spun, trying to make sense of what she’d told me.
“Sorry about that,” said Ryn as he joined us. “I had hoped we might be able to gather your root and get out without being seen. Then you could have gone on believing that the cat people were a myth, and our secret would be safe.”
“You can trust me, but why does it have to be kept secret?” I asked.
“Because if anyone finds out, we’ll be hunted down and killed,” he replied.
“Humans destroy what they don’t understand,” said Rose grimly.
“Are the jaguars still out there?” I asked, looking towards the treeline.
“There’s a whole clan in the valley, but none of them followed us,” said Rose.
“Hey, I wanted to say how impressed I am with you,” said Ryn.
“Not today, please,” I responded.
“No, I’m serious. You did a good job on that jaguar while you were pinned down. She won’t soon forget you, that’s for sure!”
I met his gaze and waited for the punchline, but none came. “Let me guess: they all survived?”
Ryn nodded. “Werecats are notoriously hard to kill, and all cat people heal fast. I’m sure they’re all sitting around somewhere, eating a meal together and cursing you.”
I sighed. “I don’t know whether to be happy that I didn’t kill anyone or scared that they’re alive to come after me.”
“They won’t come after you. As I said, they’re fiercely territorial. To pursue you would mean leaving their land, and they haven’t done that since your grandparents’ time. If you return to the valley, they’ll attack again; otherwise, you’re safe.”
“Did we get enough wormswood?” asked Rose.
I looked over the haul. “About twice as much as I need.”
“Great!” she said.
I split it in half. “Here, take this to the city and sell it. Healer Tanyl deals with a merchant named Franz. Franz will give you a fair price if he thinks Healer Tanyl sent you.”
“You’re sure you want to do this?” asked Rose.
“Based on what you said, that’s worth a lot of money,” said Ryn.
“Yes. Take it. The two of you will never have to live in the orphanage again. I’ll use the remainder to pay for my treatment and cover my apprenticeship.”
“That works out well, since they’ll be kicking us out in a few months anyway,” said Ryn.
“Why?” I queried.
“They seem to think we’re too old to go on living there and that we should find a respectable job or something,” grumbled Ryn.
It took a couple of days to make the trip back to town. We didn’t discuss the cat people again, but I caught Rose gesturing towards my arm once or twice while talking in low tones with her brother.
When we finally reached Healer Tanyl’s house, Ryn said, “We’re off to sell the roots.”
“You’re still planning to come back, aren’t you?” I asked.
“Of course. We’ll sell the roots, party a little, and then come back to the orphanage. We’ll check on you when we get back,” he said. Ryn knocked on the healer’s door and the two of them ran off.
Healer Tanyl came out, took one look at the filthy bandage on my shoulder, and frowned deeply. “What is it this time?”
“An animal in the woods,” I replied.
“Well, get in here, then,” he said.
When we were inside, I handed him the container of wormsroot.
“As promised.”
He took the container and examined it. “Huh.” Putting it down, he said, “Let’s see what you’ve done to yourself this time.”
He pulled off the bandages, which didn’t hurt as much as I’d expected, and poured clean water across my shoulder to remove the dried blood and dirt.
For the first time, I turned to examine it myself. The wound was nothing like I had expected; instead of deep tears from the jaguar’s teeth, there were only a few small puncture wounds.
“Oh,” I said. The puncture wounds suggested that the cat had just been trying to hold me, not rip my shoulder to shreds. But why would it do that? And why had it hurt so much, when there was no sign of infection?
“You went to the valley and harvested this root.”
“Yes,” I said.
“This is the bite of a jaguar.”
“Yes.”
He met my eyes. “It will heal by itself in a few more days. You’ll just have to live with it until then.”
“Are you sure?” I asked.
“You are in no danger from that wound. In a few days, you won’t even be able to tell you’ve been bitten.”
He got out clean bandages and covered the wound again. Afterwards, he sat in silence for a while, and I stayed quiet, too, thinking. It seemed odd that he should bandage up such a minor wound.
He sighed. “It would be best if you didn’t tell anyone how you got that wound.”
“Why not?” I asked.
“People are superstitious, and it will cause you even more grief.” He sighed again, then smiled gently at me. “You completed your part of the agreement, so from sunrise tomorrow you will be my apprentice.”
The pain in my arm seemed to recede, beaten back by the joy I took in that simple statement. I was no longer a worthless runt. I had found purpose and meaning.
“I will send word to your family. From now on, you will live here in my hut. A healer must be ready to serve at any time, and to do that you must be here. It’s best not to show your face till that bite mark is completely gone.”
I had done it! I resisted the urge to scream and shout, but my joy must have been apparent because Healer Tanyl’s face lit up with a big smile in response.
Healer Zero, I said in my mind. Rose was right. It was musical, and the best song I had ever heard.

Ishka’s Garden

Beneath the alabaster arches over my narrow windows, something flutters against my curtains, interrupting my reading. I squint toward the sound as I rub my earpoints. They’re sore from concentration. I’ve spent my half-day studying the techniques recorded in the leather-bound journal of a master arborist.
A tree in my garden needs pruning before the Moontide Festival. The tree that I’ve come to think of as Seesha’s Tree. My little friend will be so pleased with her new home. Fesh designed it well and picked the perfect branch. The two of them favor my Mergone and not many Fae can say a pair of the winged creatures live nearby.
Surrounded by elaborate furnishings and bare walls, I’ve kept the drapes drawn against the white light from our orb. Unlike many of the other worlds Arún has visited, we do not have a sun-star here, but we have captured a chemical reaction in a sphere situated at the tip of the tower that stands in the center of our capital. The reaction is much smaller, but it brightens the city and keeps us warm.
Dark and quiet better suits the melancholy that haunts me today, preferring self-pity over action. Action is for heroes.
There’s more scratching at the silks.
“Who’s there?” I call. No one answers, but it sounds like a bird trapped in a net. Helpless creatures always pull me from my cloistering, even when my family cannot. When I hear a bzzzt followed by the soft tinkling of bells, I know what’s found me.
I cross the polished floor. Veins of sparkling gems crisscross the expanse, broken by white woven throw rugs that my mother had cleaned last week. It was a less-than-covert attempt to force me from my rooms. It worked for a time. Though, reading on Arún’s balcony probably wasn’t the ousting my mother had in mind.
When I throw back the fabrics, light pours in and a green Hum-Fairy hovers at my eye-level with crossed arms and mouth twisted with frustration. She’s round and curvy, but still only as big as my palm. Her wings are obscured by her movement as she zips one way and then another, a glowing blur in motion.
“Oh, Seesha, I’m glad you’re home,” I say and lift my hand to her. I’ve been favored with a long-time friendship of Hum-Fairies. They’re gentle creatures, always traveling, but elusive in the realms.
She settles on my fingertips, stepping down into my palm, the tops of her wings stretch out above and behind her like the ornate fins of a fishdancer, and the bottoms pool in soft, feathery puddles on my skin. She’s covered in luminescent plumage, something between a Skybird and a fairy; sentient, but not Fae. She folds her arms again and taps her foot on the fleshy part of my hand, just below my thumb.
“Were you resting? Have you found someone to be the night to your moon?” she asks, her ever-changing mood already shifting from irritated to concerned to elated. Despite her lack of vocal cords, and though her short beak doesn’t move, I can hear her voice as easily as if she’d spoken in my ear. Every Fae can communicate with a Hum-Fairy, but time and practice makes telepathic communication with Hum-Fairies effortless. She’s been my friend for years, and she knows how my disposition turns. “Have you lost color since I’ve been gone?”
“There is no one. This has not changed,” I say. “And I was reading. The Mergone needs pruning. My memory needed refreshing on technique.” She doesn’t know about Arún or she wouldn’t begin as though nothing has changed. “And I’m as pale as I’ve always been, from my milk skin to my colorless eyes to my snowy hair.”
“My home is still here?” Her statement is part question.
“Fesh has been waiting for you.” I beam at her, dancing on my toes, happy she’s returned from the human realm. Fesh will be so pleased. He won’t just be overjoyed; he’ll get bright orange and spin loops in the air. “He asked me to help him build something for you. He said you would be back soon.”
Seesha strokes her chin. “We spent our sleeping dreams together. He can always tell when I’m ready to return. The same as I can with him.” She leaps into the air, her eyes twinkling. “I’ll meet you there.” She’s thinking of Fesh and seeing him. He always brings a languid smile to her face. Wanderlust tickles her feet. Lately, she’s been in New York at Arún’s request.
“See you both in a bit,” I say.
“We must find you a mate, Ishka. It isn’t good to be alone,” she says. And then, with a zip, she races away toward her mate. The sound of tiny wind chimes trails after her. I sense her until she’s too far away. Proximity affects the telepathic connection.
I tie my slippers slowly. Seesha’s going to love the surprise Fesh planned and I want to see it, but giving Seesha alone time with Fesh is probably the less-selfish choice. I don’t bother with a formal veil since I won’t see dignitaries or politicians in this part of the palace. Not anymore. Not since I made my position clear.
I open the door, surprising a maid as she hurries from one place to another. Her eyes widen when she sees my bare face. Or it maybe she’s startled that I’ve not met an untimely demise as the rumors proclaim. “Princess,” she says, dropping a nervous curtsy. “May I assist you?”
“No, I’ll find my own way.” I turn, not willing to endure the censure or the pity.
I am a princess that will never be queen. A blighted daughter that will never become a mother.
Down the hall, I stop long enough to study a tapestry depicting Arún saving a small village in another realm, riding his winged steed to triumph. My brother was always the hero.
He’d say, “Enjoy this peace,” with his pale sideways grin. Then he’d kiss my cheek, fashion a geode portal, and return to wait for his mate to arrive in New York. It wasn’t until he left home to stay in a foreign land that he appreciated our city.
After his marriage, he brought his wife to meet us. She delighted me, captivating me with her sometimes sardonic humor and unintentional disregard for our ways. She was a starburst in my shadows, unlike any other I’ve known.
Two corridors and many thoughts later, I find myself at the door to my brother’s unoccupied apartment rather than standing at the gate to my private topiary.
Arún loved to be the hero and look what it earned him: a self-sacrificing death. Now Arún is gone, and the dead cannot grant permission. I let myself into his rooms without hesitation.
From the balcony off his living quarters, I study the beautiful city formed from ancient stone by my ancestors. Circles of color illuminate the streets as Fae use magic in their daily life. Each Fae possesses a shade of magic unique to them, and a rainbow of spheres dance in the light from the spire at the center of the acropolis.
The trees on the promenade below are orange, yellow, red, and Arún’s favorite shade of green. The scented breeze whispers of the blooms of the bell-vines growing inside my walled garden. Moisture rises up from the ground to water all our living things. Cisterns never run dry, and fountains sparkle, draped in diamond-water cascades.
Arún’s mate did not weep as she escorted his body through our streets, but I heard her cry echo my own even as I found comfort between the fountains with the Hum-Fairies that choose to live near the ancient Mergone.
Leaf clippings from the thick-trunked Mergone branch fall around my bare feet. Our lightstay lamps are made from cultivated Mergone wood. The sap doesn’t evaporate after cutting and holds magic longer than anything else. One spell can light a home all night. The Mergone are carefully cultivated here.
I’m pruning with magic-made shears, knitting molecules and cells back together, healing the tree even as I take from it. I wiggle my toes in the soft grasses and hum a tune the musicians played while I ate mid-day meal. A zephyr stirs the dress I wear.
Royalty employs the best seamstresses, skilled in magically animating prints. And this dress is one of my favorites, giving me hope in the possibility of a happiness beyond. The fabric spins with moving reproductions of galaxies from across the realms.
We’re at the center of the circle-shaped space, enclosed by castle walls and surrounded by a manicured garden, at the center of a sun shape formed from mountain stone. The ancient hardwood is the crown of my garden, surrounded by a lush green carpet and blooms of all shapes and colors.
Seesha zooms by my head and then settles on my shoulder, moving in quick little jerks as she studies our surroundings. “Don’t trim our branch. It’s perfect.”
“Mmmm,” I agree, moving past the wide and gnarled limb where Fesh asked me to hang their little tree house. Seesha had always dreamed of living in the majestic tree. Just outside their tiny home, we put a glassed-in swing. When either of them sits in it, the globe glows as bright as a lightstay spell lamp. “I haven’t seen Fesh this morning,” I say.
“He’s gone to fetch my mother from across the city,” Seesha answers. “She was offered a home by a musician when she paused to hear a melody.” My little friend darts from my shoulder to her gently swaying swing.
I envy Seesha’s freedom. All over our kingdom, when a Fae sees a Hum-Fairy, they are welcomed, invited in, provided a home, but have the opportunity to refuse or move at any time. They are a good omen. But their lives are their own, their presence counted a blessing, no matter how short their stay. Capturing a Hum-Fairy, removing their free choice, is an offense punishable by exile.
A noise in the bushes pulls me from my peaceful reverie, and I stare across the lawn to the large-tailed bird shape that Arún commissioned after a bird he saw in Central Park. It was his way of sharing his travels with me. I lower my hands and the shears disappear. Dark eyes stare out at me from beneath the lifted foliage wing. A shimmer wraps around the tall, masculine figure. I take a step forward, blinking to clear my vision, but he’s gone.
“Did you see that?” Seesha says and then she zips by my head, zooming toward the shrub.
“Did you see it, too?” I jog after her, curious what creature has been caught in the greenery.
“Something’s here,” she calls behind her as she darts into the foliage.
She gasps. And then something closes. Like a box snapped shut.
A muscular man wrapped in robes, his face hidden behind a wrap of linen, bursts out and bolts across the promenade to the thick bell-vines that grow up and over the highest wall. At the base of the bulwark, he glances over his shoulder at me. Moments stretch into something longer, as he stares at me and I stare at him.
Be the night to my moon. I shake my head to banish the errant thought.
When he looks away, I tug at my skirts, lifting the hems as I go. This dress isn’t made for running. In his hand, a glass box swings at the end of a chain. He hooks the metal loop to a spot on his belt. Inside the cube, Seesha presses her tiny hands against her prison.
“Ishka....” she begins, but she’s so far that her words are too faint to make out.
“Stop,” I cry, waving my arm wildly. “You can’t take her. She’s made her home here. They will exile you.” But I’m too far to catch him. I’ve never heard of a Fae kidnapping a Hum-Fairy. It’s unthinkable. I summon magic, but I’m out of practice with attack spells. My hands tingle with the surge of energy they hold. The only formulas I can call to mind are my shears and a cloudburst.
With one hand I send a fluffy cloud to weep on his head, hoping desperately that the moisture will make the creepers slick. With the other, I send the shears toward the vines above him. But the snipping is too late and his hands must be more calloused than mine. And then he’s over the other side and into the city.
He didn’t slip. He didn’t fall. He’s escaped, and now I can’t sense Seesha’s thoughts.
When I reach the bottom of the barrier, I hesitate and press my ear to the thick stone. Footsteps are running away, but Seesha makes no sound.
My heartbeat thunders in my ears, like galloping pasture hounds. I’m not made to be a hero. I bite my bottom lip. Seesha needs my help, but my veil is in my room. I haven’t been out of the castle in years. I refuse. And I haven’t gone unveiled about the city since I was a little girl.
Reasons, I have plenty.
And then I think of Fesh, home soon with Seesha’s mother, and how badly I missed her while she had been gone. They will miss her, and she is my friend.
I grasp the gnarled branch, ignoring the bite of rounded barbs in my tender skin, hauling myself up the twisted vines, avoiding the snipped ones. The wall is as wide as my arm is long, and I climb atop to stare over the city, trying to catch sight of the kidnapper. I can see the dark hood on the man receding into the distance, amid wandering shoppers and pedestrians in the food row.
I look at the street below. It’s a long ways down, but I don’t have much time. The young bell-vine doesn’t cover the exterior of the wall yet. So I grab the nearest tendril, hoping it’s strong enough to bear my weight so I can jump to the ground outside. It’s a tough plant, but I’ve never tried to swing on one before.
I turn my back to the street, blow three short breaths, and begin the descent. Halfway down the wall, I run out of length. Now I have no choice but to drop.
I open my hands, becoming weightless, falling through the air, giddy with a thrill I haven’t felt since the blight burned away my wings.
And then I land in a puddle of reality as my ankles roll and the balls of my feet meet the street. Pain shoots up my legs, reminding me I’m not who I once was. Thank goodness. I gasp as I pitch forward, flailing, and a nearby woman rushes to assist, dark hair loose and flowing. She catches me before I fall forward to the pavement.
“Are you all right, Miss?” she says.
I tuck my hair behind my ear, and it is her turn to gasp. She nearly drops me when she curtsies. “Princess,” she whispers, studying my face.
Yeasty, spicy smells waft out of the bakery on the corner, and her emerald-eyed scrutiny makes me uncomfortable while I regain my balance. “What?” I bark at her, gathering my star-field skirts and prepare to run.
She startles. “Oh, nothing. I just thought you were scarred.” She lifts a hand to my jaw as if to smooth her hand along it. I scowl at her, processing her words, but say nothing. “You’re lovely. You shouldn’t hide,” she breathes, and then her eyes widen when she realizes what she’s said. She drops her hand and curtsies again before she trots away.
Without time to correct or ponder, I bolt after the criminal, praying I haven’t lost him.
He leads me through the market and beyond, ducking between stalls and vendors. The streets empty of people and the buildings grow shorter as we go. This far from the orb, the shadows are larger, seeping out of the corners and alleys until I have to weave between them. While I know they can’t hurt me, I avoid them. The blight caught me in the shade.
I shiver, wrapping my arms around my middle. Crime doesn’t happen here, but I study the windows for angry faces and sneaky eyes.
The roads feel smaller, a too-tight coat, but I’ve seen the Architect’s plans. All thoroughfares in the city are the same, running in straight lines, organized and logical. This is an optical illusion, an emotional mirage.
The kidnapper slips into a doorway, and I sag against the stoop of a blackstone house. A door squeaks behind me, the wood grinding against the floor as the door is pulled open. I leap forward, but spin quickly, hand held up.
“Who’s there?” an elderly voice groans. I can’t see the face, but no more movement is made. This Fae means me no harm.
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” I say, and then I slip three stoops down.
I press my ear to the roughhewn door he entered. The stranger hasn’t come out, so that means I go in. Seesha’s life may depend upon it, and I cannot bear the thought of losing her. Arún would save her.
“Everyone should try heroics at least once in their life,” he’d say, and shove me forward.
Today will be my once.
With my toes on the threshold, I summon magic, holding it in my hands, rocking back and forth. I have a grafting spell at the ready. I’ll use it to ... tie something together. Or graft an apple tree to a peach. Maybe I can horticulture the kidnapper into submission.
I grimace and swallow. This isn’t the best hex for actively going into battle, but I can’t think. I’m not skilled at this, but I’m the only chance Seesha has.
I kick the door, but the opening isn’t dramatic and my bare feet aren’t protected. The door swings open slowly, and pain explodes in my toes, radiating up my calf. I whimper and stumble in, sputtering threats, trying to see through the rush of tears.
Blinking rapidly, I lean on the square table in the middle of the room and something crinkles under my hand. As my eyes clear, I realize that I’m leaning on a workbench and it’s covered in scraps of parchment. Under my fingers, I see a hasty scrawl that reads, “Hello, Princess. Thank you for coming.” Seesha’s prison rests at the corner, the top thrown open.
I scowl at the note. There’s something strange about that note, as though the writer knew I would be here. Then that means....
He knew I was following him the whole time.
Holding still, I glance around the room from beneath my lashes. A blaze burns in the fireplace. Lightstay lamps illuminate the room. Though the spells aren’t strong, the light is still there. I wish it was brighter.
They all brighten. Someone is reading my mind without permission.
But, rather than creating a mental block, I continue the study of my surroundings, allowing the probing. I don’t want to scare them away or inspire an attack. I have nothing to hide.
There’s a noise across the room, and my eyes are drawn to a low bed along one wall. A small someone is tucked beneath a tattered cover, and I’m drawn to the bedside. In a trance, I walk slowly toward the bed until I can study the figure tucked beneath the sheets and cover. My mouth falls open and my jaw slacks.
An ashen-skinned little girl rests in the bed. Dark veins in her cheeks mar her features like black webs. Her ear tips quiver with each breath she drags in. She has the blight.
There’s a squeak behind me and a tinkling close to my ear. In a burst of neon, Seesha dives over my shoulder to the child on the bed, hovering over her face.
“Seesha,” I gasp, waving to her, gesturing for her to follow me. “You’re free.”
“Ishka,” she says, but doesn’t act surprised or turn toward me.
I frown at her dismissal. She had been kidnapped, and I am here to save her.
“Should we go?” I ask, pointing toward the door.
“Later,” she says. “Be still.”
Her command catches me off-guard. I’m not used to being bossed around by anyone, much less one so slight. She should be terrified of being trapped again.
“First, I want to....” Her words trail away.
And then I see a shadow out of the corner of my eye. The now-unmasked kidnapper is upon us, standing nearby. He doesn’t advance. Now is our chance.
“He’s here, Seesha. Let’s go.” I turn toward the door, leaping forward as though I’m being chased. Her response stops me short.
“No,” she says, settling on the chest of the frail Fae, smoothing her hands over the cheeks. “Merrick, meet Ishka,” she says and the man bows to me. “Your healers can heal this,” she says.
“Merrick?” I hiss.
“Yes, he’s a nice fellow. Your healers can heal this,” she repeats.
I throw up my hands. I’ve come to save the Hum-Fairy who’s busy worrying after her captors. “Maybe,” I growl, begrudging the admission.
“No, they can,” she says. “We will do this.” And she shakes all over, filling the air with bell sounds.
The child’s eyelids flutter, rasping only one word. “Merrick?”
The kidnapper rushes forward, but stops when he bumps into me. He presses a scrap of paper into my palm before he kneels at the bedside.
“You brought her?” The little girl breathes the words like a prayer and joy radiates off her.
His face splits in a smile that rivals the sphere, and again my jaw slackens. His teeth, his eyes, he sparkles with mirth. I’m struck by the kindness in his face. He’s said nothing, only beamed at all of us.
Something crinkles in my hand, and I glance down at the paper. In a harsh scrawl, I read, “I cannot speak; I was born without a tongue. Forgive my impertinence. My sister, Mol, has always wanted to see a Hum-Fairy. I was worried the blight would take her before she could. I am not practiced at communicating with Hum-Fairies. I will accept my punishment.” A rush of tears floods my eyes. Merrick was his sister’s hero, too, and I see Arún sitting at my bedside while the blight burned through my insides.
I turn to my friend as she does loops in the air, to the delight of the child. “Seesha?”
My friend stops her acrobatics long enough to telepath. “He explained it to me as we ran. I tried to relay the message, but I couldn’t reach you, you were too far behind. I am here of my own free will.” Seesha sprinkles starflakes over Mol, and tiny fingers reach for the falling light. “Now Merrick cannot be justly exiled,” she says with a nod. And then she beams at us both. I hear the next words as a whisper in my mind. “Night to your moon.”
I plop into the lone chair at the roughhewn table, watching the three play, as ideas takes hold. Today might still be a day for saving.
I smile at the politician as he travels through the Great Hall. His eyes widen at the sight of me. I’m not so dead as they all think. I glance sideways at Merrick and the little one beyond.
Mol is dancing between the mid-day musicians. Her face shows almost no trace of the blight. Her insides are like mine now, but today she plays, chasing after Seesha and Fesh. She begged the seamstresses for a dress like mine. My mother obliged. Merrick stayed by her bedside as the healers fought back death, conversing all the while with me on paper.
I don't pull away when he reaches for my hand. I squeeze his fingers when hope tiptoes through my heart. Merrick is so different than Arún, but they’re both heroes through-and-through. And maybe they’re rubbing off on me.

Absolutely True Facts about the Pacific Tree Octopus

“This is going to be the worst weekend ever,” Liesel’s big brother Henry moaned, banging his head against the car window.
Liesel looked up from her notepad and blinked at him. “The worst? Why?”
The trees rushed past them, tall and green, a constant wall of woodsiness. It looked like the pictures in a fairy tale book, and Liesel fully expected to pass the Big Bad Wolf or the Three Bears’ cottage at any moment.
“First things first, Mom took away all my electronics. She said her cellphone may not even work out here.” Henry rolled his eyes. He was twelve, four years older than Liesel, and Mom said “so plugged in it’s a wonder his fingers don’t spark.”
Liesel shrugged at this. She didn’t even own a tablet or a phone yet, though she did sometimes like to watch animal videos and fun facts on YouTube and Nat Geo.
“Secondly, it rains like two hundred inches a year in the Olympic Peninsula. By the time we get home, we’ll probably have webbed feet.”
Liesel gaped. Two hundred inches? She didn’t even think she was that tall ... though that was hard math ... twelve goes into two hundred ... yeah, she was definitely not that tall. “All at once?” she whispered.
Henry snorted. “Yeah, sure, all at once. We’ll wake up one morning, and we’ll be under sixteen feet of water.”
Liesel turned red. “Well, it could happen.” She leaned back to catch sight of the blue sky winking through the treetops. “It’s sunny now.”
“Now.”
“The forecast calls for fair weather,” Mom said from the front seat. “Give it a chance, Hen.”
“Thirdly,” Henry dropped his voice low, eyeing the back of Mom’s head. “There’s absolutely nothing to do here. No rides. No pool. Just trees, trees, trees.”
Liesel held up her notepad. “I think it’ll be fun. I made a list of all the animals I want to see. I went online and found out what kinds live here and how common they are. I want to see an American black bear and a bobcat and maybe a cougar, though those can be dangerous ... but if not a cougar then maybe a Pacific tree octopus....”
“A Pacific tree what?” Henry looked at her if she had sprouted those webbed feet right in front of him.
“The Pacific tree octopus.” Liesel turned a page in her animal notebook and held out the picture she’d printed off the internet. “They’re awesome. I read all about them on this website. They’re possibly the smartest animal in this area. They can swing from tree to tree with their eight legs and grow up to six feet in diameter. Their tentacles allow for extreme man-u-al dex-ter-i-ty.” She sounded out the big words. “Their only known predators are bald eagles, ravens, and Sasquatch.”
Henry doubled over laughing.
“Stop it.” She scowled at him. “What’s so funny?”
“You ... you ... you are!” His face pinched up like a prune and his whole body shook. “Tree octopus? Even for a little kid, you’re so gullible.”
“What’s gullible?” Liesel whispered. She was beginning to get the feeling that she’d said or done something horribly stupid, and that was not a feeling she liked in the slightest.
“You’ll never know. It’s not in the dictionary.”
Liesel crossed her arms. “Well, if it isn’t in the dictionary, it isn’t a real word.”
In spite of the strength of this argument, Henry laughed harder.
“Stop it!” she shouted.
“Kids, quiet!” Dad said. “Gullible is in the dictionary, Liesel. Henry’s being facetious.”
Great, another big word.
“Facetious means ‘saying something that isn’t true to be funny,’” Mom explained.
“So lying,” Liesel mumbled. She stuck her tongue out at Henry.
“Your sister isn’t gullible,” Mom continued. “She’s just young. Liesel, gullible means easily tricked or lied to. What Henry should have said is that website was a hoax. There’s no such thing as a tree dwelling octopus.”
Liesel hung her head. “Being gullible wouldn’t be such a big deal if people didn’t lie so much.”
Especially big brothers.
Liesel stuffed her notepad into her backpack and pulled out her Rubik’s Cube. It had been a stocking stuffer that Christmas, and six months later, she was no closer to solving it. Still, she liked turning it and watching the little colored squares click around.
“You’re never gonna solve that thing,” Henry said.
“Let’s be quiet and listen to some music,” Dad said. “We’re almost to the cabin.”
A few minutes later the gentle, steady swish of the tires over the pavement turned into the crinkly crunch of driving over gravel. The feathery branches of the conifer trees swiped at the car like reaching hands. Liesel put down her cube and squinted into the greenery. Was that a bear? Nope, a stump. What about ... no ... another stump.
They pulled up in front of a tiny cabin with a green tin roof. Dad and Mom began to pull sleeping bags and coolers out of the back.
“No internet, no electricity, no indoor plumbing.” Dad snickered. “You kids are in for a rude awakening.”
Liesel wandered towards the edge of the parking area. The gravel had a slick, black sheen, and the whole world smelt fresh and damp. Moss dripped from tumbled down trees. Birds sang a consistent piping noise. A muddy path curved into the foliage before disappearing in a particularly thick grouping of pines. It was perfect. Even if there weren’t tree octopuses, there were bound to be bears or foxes or squirrels....
Something shook the branches of a nearby tree. Liesel grinned and stood on her tiptoes for a better look.
Her first wild animal. Probably just a bird or a squirrel, but still, a real live animal. Some fir needles shifted, and something slick and shiny peeked through. Black eyes glinted. Liesel’s breath left her. She opened and shut her mouth, wanting to shout for Mom and Dad, but nothing came out. The creature extended a long tentacle.
“Mom! Dad! Look!” Liesel’s voice escaped, much shriekier than she had intended.
The limbs of the tree shook and the fir needles closed around the creature. Then the tree behind it shook, then the next, all in a row, too fast to quite follow ... and it was gone.
Mom came running and grabbed her about the shoulders, Dad and Henry right behind.
“Liesel, baby, are you all right?” Mom’s face had that “mom” look that usually foretold a trip to the emergency room or a long, probing “talk.”
“I saw ... I saw....” Liesel’s mouth clamped shut when Henry raised a mocking eyebrow. They wouldn’t believe her. She was gullible, and tree octopuses didn’t exist ... still, that thing had looked an awful lot like a tree octopus.
“What did you see? A Sasquatch?” Henry smirked at her.
Liesel’s chest tightened.
“Henry, stop teasing her,” Dad ordered, but he had a smile at his face. He thought it was pretty funny too, Liesel could tell. She was a silly little girl who had believed in tree octopuses.
But tree octopuses were real. They were, and she was going to prove it.
That night Liesel couldn’t sleep. She lay in bed, staring out the window at the clouds drifting across the face of the moon and imagining they were the reaching arms of an octopus. When Dad’s snores and Mom’s whispered breathing rang out from across the cabin, she wriggled out of her sleeping bag and fished a flashlight and her notepad from her backpack.
She turned to the page of notes she’d made on tree octopuses. Each animal got a page, with a printed out picture, and a list of facts that might help her spot them, like whether they were diurnal or nocturnal, where they lived, what they ate. She’d almost torn out the page on the tree octopuses when Henry had laughed at her. Now she was so glad she hadn’t. A smile crept across her face at the thought of those reaching arms and shining black eyes. Henry would sure feel stupid when she caught one.
An octopus is extremely flexible. The only hard part of their body is their bony beak. Because of this, they can slip through any opening that their beak can fit through.
They hatch in water but soon climb onto land. They return to the water only to mate.
They eat small birds, insects, and sometimes rob nests for eggs.
Liesel tapped the end of the flashlight against her teeth. They had eggs in the cooler. They were for breakfast tomorrow, but Mom wouldn’t miss one or two. Liesel could set a trap. She went over and opened the first cooler. The carton of eggs lay on top. Glancing around to make sure her family was still sleeping, she slipped out a pale white egg.
Now what?
She couldn’t go poking around the forest at night, could she? It was cold ... and dark ... and there might be bears. Did bears like eggs too? Liesel shuddered. She’d wanted to see a bear, but not all by herself in the middle of the pitch black woods. Still, how to get the egg to the octopus?
A scraping noise made her jump. She whirled about and shone her flashlight at the nearest window. Tree branches moved against the glass. An idea tickled her mind, and she smiled.
She pulled her sleeping bag over so she could rest her back against the table facing the window. Then she opened the window ever so slightly—if an octopus could fit through small spaces, a crack would be enough—and set the egg on the sill. With that accomplished, she flipped off the flashlight so the octopus wouldn’t see her.
Cold air trickled into the cabin. She pulled the sleeping bag closer around her neck. Her eyes felt heavy. No worries. The octopus would show any moment. It’d see the egg shimmering in the moonbeams and come for it. Then she’d see it. She’d see it, jump up, and slam the window shut, and it would be hers ... any moment now. Any ... moment....
“Wake up, sleepy head. What are you doing over here?”
Liesel jolted awake at Mom’s voice. She struggled out of the sleeping bag and rushed to the window. It was shut, but white flecks were sprinkled over the sill like confetti.
“Darn it.”
It had come. It had come, and she’d missed it.
“Huh,” Dad said from over the camp stove. “I thought this was a fresh pack of eggs. We’re one short.”
“That’s odd,” Mom said.
Liesel gulped down her breakfast.
“What’s your hurry?” Henry asked, looking up from his half-finished eggs and toast.
She shrugged. “I want to spot some animals today.”
He smirked at her. “What animals are you looking for? Bigfoot? The Loch Ness Monster? Oh, I know! Santa Claus.”
“Santa isn’t an animal.” She scowled at him.
“Ha! Liesel still believes in Santa.”
“I do not.” Liesel kicked him under the table. No, Liesel believed in tree octopuses and today she was going to prove she was right.
“Well, Mom and I need to set up the fire pit and gather some kindling if we’re going to have a bonfire tonight,” Dad said. “I’m looking forward to s’mores.”
“Yum, s’mores.” Mom smiled. “You guys want to help?”
“I think I’d rather stay in the cabin and read,” Henry said.
“Oh dang, we’re out of jam.” Dad scraped the last bit onto his toast.
“Can I have the jar?” Liesel asked. It might come in useful for her traps.
“Sure, if you want it.”
“What about you, Liesel?” Mom asked. “You coming with us?”
Liesel bit her bottom lip. Too many people might scare off the octopus. “Can I go for a walk on my own? I want to go someplace quiet to draw and wait for animals.”
Mom and Dad exchanged a look. Dad shrugged.
“Well,” Mom said. “There is a nature path that loops around the cabin. It’s only about a quarter mile, but if you stay on the path, it’s perfectly safe. Why don’t you go with her, Henry? You can read while she watches birds.”
Liesel’s nose wrinkled. She didn’t want Henry anywhere near her octopus, not until she caught it at least.
“Do I have to?” Henry moaned.
Mom gave him “the look.”
Henry groaned and slammed down his fork.
Fifteen minutes later, Liesel followed her brother as he stomped down the path into the woods. With all the noise he was making he’d scare off every tree octopus in the forest. Thankfully, only a few minutes into their walk, there was a bridge over a small creek with a wooden bench in the middle. Henry plopped down on this and pulled a comic book out of his backpack.
“Look, go chase your birds. Just ... you know ... stay on the path or whatever.” With that he stuck his nose in the pages of Super Dude Squad.
Liesel grinned. She wouldn’t go too far from the path. Just a little bit.
She crossed the bridge and pushed through the fir trees until she found a clearing. Taking the jar from her backpack, she paused. What would she use for bait? Mom had used up all the eggs that morning. The octopuses also ate birds and bugs, however. Maybe she could catch some of those and put them in the jar.
Poking around under rotting logs produced a few nasty looking beetles. She caught one by the thorax and dropped it, squirming, into the jar. She’d rinsed most of the jelly off after breakfast. The beetle tried to climb up the slick sides only to slip back down. It landed helplessly on its back, rocking back and forth and twitching its legs. She placed the jar on the other side of the clearing in the shade of a stooping fir tree.
Now to wait.
Liesel sat with her back against a broad tree. The bark poked into her back at first, but she shifted until her fleece jacket cushioned her shoulder blades. The woods smelled like a mix between moist earth and Christmas trees. In the distance, the creek burbled, and every so often a bird called out.
She scanned the trees, looking for some sign of movement. Occasionally a branch would shake, but a moment later a bird would launch into the air, rather than an octopus swinging among the boughs.
How long until Mom and Dad or Henry came looking for her? She wished she had a watch or a phone ... something to tell time. Were tree octopuses even diurnal? She couldn’t remember if she’d written that down. Her notepad was safely in her backpack, along with some granola bars and her Rubik’s Cube.
Liesel took the notepad out and turned to the correct page. Nothing about diurnal vs nocturnal, though she had written down their scientific name of Octopus Paxarbolis. Like she’d ever need to know that.
They’re extremely intelligent and curious.
Clever enough to steal the egg and shut the window behind them. Sneaky octopuses.
She took out the Rubik’s Cube and started to mess with it, first turning it one way, then the other. Every twist made it worse, though. Maybe Henry was right. Maybe she’d never solve this thing.
Twist, turn, look up to check on the jar, twist turn again. Soon she had all but two of the squares on one side yellow. Her heart thumped. Could she get it this time? Where were those last two yellow squares? Ah, there was one! She turned the cube to get that new yellow square into place, and knocked two other yellow squares onto the blue side.
“Ugh!” She quickly tried to undo the damage, but somehow ended up with a green square smack in the middle of the yellow ones. How had that happened? “Stupid puzzle!” She tossed it across the clearing. It clanked against the jar before landing softly in the moss.
Liesel drew a deep breath in through her nose and counted to ten like her mom had taught her. Silly thing to get frustrated at. It wasn’t like Henry was here, making fun of her ... but he would’ve made fun of her if he had been there, and that on its own was a frustrating thought.
Why couldn’t, just once, she know something Henry didn’t? Why did he always have to be right? Well, he wasn’t right about the stupid octopus. She just couldn’t prove it.
Liesel crossed the clearing and reclaimed the Rubik’s Cube. She’d put it away for later. After all, if she solved it, it would be over, and it might be a while until the octopus showed up.
She turned and froze. There, sliding its tentacles into her backpack, was a small, brown tentacled beast, with shiny skin and black, glinting eyes.
“Octopus!” she gasped.
The creature pulled Liesel’s granola bar out of the backpack. The foil wrapper crinkled as its agile tentacles tugged at it. With a rip, the wrapper revealed its golden contents. The octopus broke off a square and pulled it in towards its chomping beak.
It was smaller than she’d expected, perhaps the size of a dinner plate, though the arms going this way and that made it hard to judge.
The octopus munched quietly, its dark eyes never leaving Liesel.
How was she going to get that thing in a jam jar? Even if octopuses could squeeze into tight spaces, those arms seemed to be everywhere at once. There was no way she could just stuff it in the jar.
Still grasping half a granola bar, the octopus extended a tentacle. It waved the bar at her. Liesel blinked. Was it trying to share?
After a moment’s hesitation, she reached for the granola bar. The octopus released it into her hand. A trace of slime clung to the wrapper, but Liesel forced herself to take a bite anyway. It didn’t seem polite to refuse. Her teeth crunched into the sweet and salty mix of nuts and oats. She couldn’t taste any octopus.
“Thanks,” she said.
The octopus didn’t give her much to go on. It didn’t have a visible mouth. No smiles or frowns. Just two soulful eyes and a mess of wriggling arms. Still, something deep inside her told her it was friendly.
She sat cross-legged and held out her hand. The octopus grasped the ground with its tentacles then drew itself forward. Soon its thin arms brushed against Liesel’s knee.
“Did you want more?” she asked.
The octopus’s suckers gripped her wrist. It pried at her fingers which still held the Rubik’s Cube.
“This?” She raised her eyebrows. “You like this?”
She loosened her grasp, and the octopus took the cube from her. It manipulated it between two tentacles.
“You can’t eat it. It’ll make you sick.” Liesel tried to take it back, but the octopus pulled it away.
The octopus twisted the squares of the Rubik’s Cube this way and that. Liesel stared, fascinated by the creature’s apparent fascination.
“When they said ‘manual dexterity’ they weren’t kidding.”
She wished she had a camera. If she shouted, would Henry come? Or would it spook the octopus? She kind of wanted her parents to see it too ... and other people. People everywhere. Could finding a tree octopus make her famous? Would she get to be on TV?
Fishing all the way to the bottom of her backpack, she found another granola bar. At the crinkle of the wrapper, the octopus put down the Rubik’s Cube.
“You want this?” Liesel smiled. She broke the bar into three pieces and ate one. The second she held out to her eight-legged visitor. The octopus snatched it. Liesel plunked the third piece into the jar.
The octopus’s beak clicked as it devoured the snack. Its tentacles tapped at the jar.
Please go in, octopus. Please go in.
The octopus stuck the tips of two tentacles into the jar and felt around the bottom for the granola bar. It couldn’t quite reach.
Liesel held her breath, conscious of the jar’s lid in her pocket. She slipped her hand over the lid.
The octopus tilted forward, up over the lip of the jar, then pooled at the bottom like a liquid. A couple of arms overlapped the edge of the container like fronds of a hanging house plant. Liesel swept in, pushed all the legs into the jar, and clamped the lid on.
She picked up the jar, her chest heaving. The octopus took up most of the space. It turned this way and that. Liesel was glad she’d already put air holes in the lid. If she took the lid off, the octopus would certainly wriggle out and run for the trees.
“I’ve got to show Henry!”
She started through the underbrush, back towards the path.
Click, click, click.
She glanced down. The octopus tapped against the glass.
“Don’t worry. It won’t be long. I just need to show you to my family ... and take some pictures ... and maybe call the TV people ... but after that you can go home. I promise.” She pushed through the trees onto the path.
Click, click, click.
“Just be patient.”
Metal rasped against glass, and the jar lid moved beneath her hand. She quickly tightened it back in place. It rotated again, the octopus wedging its body against the inside of the lid.
“Stop it! I told you. It’ll be quick ... no more than a day or two.”
Click, click, click.
The stupid thing wouldn’t stop. Screwing the lid on good and tight, she stuck the jar into her backpack and zipped it shut.
There. Now she could have some peace.
When she came to the bench, it was empty. She huffed in annoyance. So much for Henry looking out for her. She sped up, determined to get to the camp and show her brother and parents her triumphant discovery.
Raised voices echoed through the bracken.
“I can’t believe you left her alone. She’s only eight!” Mom said.
“I didn’t think she’d be stupid enough to leave the path,” Henry whined.
“You shouldn’t have left her.”
Liesel snickered. Henry deserved a good talking to. Maybe Mom would take away his stupid comic books. But wait ... she had left the path when she wasn’t supposed to. What if she was the one in trouble? Better lie low and see what the mood was.
Diving off the path, Liesel listened. Mom, Dad, and Henry tramped by, feet from her but unable to see her through the dense underbrush.
“Liesel, baby, can you hear me?” Mom called. She sounded worried. Feeling guilty, Liesel considered standing up and showing herself.
“Beth, she’s been gone less than twenty minutes, and you know how she is. She probably just sat down somewhere to draw pictures in her little notebook.” Dad laughed. “Who knows? Maybe she ran into a tree octopus.”
“Yeah, a tree octopus,” Henry snickered.
Liesel scowled, suddenly not feeling guilty at all. They were still making fun of her. Well, she’d show them. She had the proof.
“Imagine if she did find one, though. Do you know how crazy scientists would go over something like that? Not just a new species, but a tree octopus?” Dad said. “They’d be crawling all over these woods looking for more. People would line up for days to see them in aquariums and zoos. The amazing arboreal cephalopod.” He laughed again.
Liesel hesitated. Would they really put her octopus in an aquarium? In a small glass tank? A tank ... like a jar. The octopus didn’t seem very happy in a jar. It probably wouldn’t like an aquarium tank either.
Her family’s footsteps faded down the path. She needed the octopus. If she let it go, no one would ever know she was right. Maybe she could show her parents and they’d let it go free afterwards? But would they really? Her parents loved her, but she was only eight. They were always doing things “for her own good.” What if they decided the aquarium was for the octopus’s own good?
Her backpack shook slightly. She slipped it from her shoulders and unzipped the top. The octopus sat on top of the now open jar. It waved at her, holding her Rubik’s Cube tightly in its tentacles.
She let out a hot breath. “Look, you have to understand. If I don’t show them, they’ll never believe me. It’s awful not to be believed, to be wrong all the time. Well, this time I’m not wrong, and I need someone to know about it!”
The octopus’s suckers tightened around her fingers, leaving little red circles in her skin. A bird cried out.
“Oh, darn it.” Liesel picked up the octopus. It felt slimy but surprisingly light. She held it up to the nearest tree. “Okay, you can go, but ... oh darn it. Just go before I change my mind.”
The octopus grasped a branch and swung up into the boughs.
“Hey, Liesel!” Twigs snapped, and Henry emerged from the trees. “I thought I heard you. Didn’t you hear Mom shouting?”
She shrugged.
“What are you doing out here anyway?” He squinted at her. “Who were you talking too?”
“Nobody. Mom’s not too worried, is she?”
“A little bit. You know moms. I knew you were probably okay. You aren’t dumb enough to get lost out here.”
Liesel’s mouth dropped open. From Henry that was high praise.
“Come on. Let’s go find them before Mom starts tearing up trees.” As he turned back to the path, something hit the ground behind them with a clunk. “What was that?”
They both looked. There, beneath the tree, lay Liesel’s Rubik’s Cube, completely solved.
“Did you...? How did you...?” Henry stooped down and picked it up. He glanced from it to her then back again. “You really did it?”
Liesel hesitated. She glanced up at the tree. A tentacle emerged from the fir needles and waved at her.
She grinned. “Oh, Henry,” she said, snatching the cube from his hands. “Don’t be so gullible.”

########

KINGDOMS AT WAR
PROLOGUE
“Take this to the man sitting outside. And don’t annoy him.”
The boy accepted the mug of octli, careful not to let the milky liquid slosh over the rim as he eased through the busy cantina, but he hesitated in the doorway. Scents of sulfur and ash laced the salty sea air, and the usually harsh southern sunlight had a surreal orange tint that brought to mind tales of Hell and eternal toil under a slavemaster’s whip.
A single man sat outside at a table under the awning. A roamer.
The big man had brown skin, wiry black hair shot with gray, and a nose that had been broken more often than the cantina’s glassware. His dark brooding eyes stared across the strait toward the volcano smoldering on the closest of the Dragon Perch Islands.
When the boy glanced back uncertainly, the bartender made a shooing motion, then rubbed his fingers together to remind him to collect the coin.
“A pox on your bunions,” the boy muttered, though he dared not disobey the bartender.
He’d already been hit twice that afternoon by grumpy patrons arguing about omens and placing bets on when the volcano would erupt. His swollen eye ached at the memory of yesterday’s punishment for moving too slowly.
After squaring his shoulders and taking a deep breath, the boy headed for the table.
The roamer glanced at him as he approached, but his attention returned to the volcano. A pen dangled between his fingers, and a journal lay open on the table, the pages bare except for a few lines. It was hard to imagine the big fighter as a scribe, given the sword harness strapped across his back, the worn leather-wrapped hilt of the blade poking over his shoulder, and the magelock pistol holstered at his hip.
No, the boy realized with a start. That wasn’t a magelock but an old black-powder pistol. He remembered that roamers hated magic and hated those who used the tools and gizmos that mages sold to people. Nervously, he rubbed the band that circled his head, the source of pleasant daydreams and little zings of contentment that sometimes made him forget his lot in life.
He crept forward and placed the mug at the man’s elbow. Two copper rinara rested on the table, one for the price of the drink and one… for him?
The boy peered warily at the man, afraid to be caught staring but afraid to presume. Only then did he notice the man’s left hand was missing, replaced by a dark metal pickaxe head. A scar sliced through the roamer’s eyebrow and halfway down his cheek. It hadn’t been visible before, and it made the face seem familiar, as if the boy had seen it before, but he’d never waited on this man. He was certain of it.
A shout came from farther up the road, and he jumped. Six teenagers in ill-fitting brown and tan tunics, rope belts clinking with dangling pieces of tin and copper, were ambling this way. Several carried clubs or maces on their shoulders.
The boy glanced toward the doorway. Zone magic protected the inside of the pub from muggers and pirates, but only the enforcers imposed the laws outside, and they rarely bothered near the docks.
Had the roamer seen the approaching gang? They might assume his age and missing hand would make him an easy mark.
“Take the coins, killer,” the roamer said, his gaze on the journal as he wrote a line.
Killer? The boy touched his chest.
“Both of them,” the man added, his voice a baritone, not harsh and gruff as the boy had expected.
“Uhm, there’s trouble coming, sir.”
As the teens drew closer, they nudged each other and pointed at the table with their weapons.
“I have no doubt.” The roamer looked toward the island volcano instead of the approaching gang. He squinted at a barge anchored in a bay close to the shoreline, almost hidden by ashy gray smoke wafting down from the caldera. Why would anyone sail so close to an active volcano? “You had better go inside,” the man added.
“You can come in too if you want, sir.”
“I like the view.”
The teens had reached the seating area, and one kicked over a chair, sending it clattering across the sandstone road. Only the coarse rope strung between the pillars along the edge kept it from tumbling into the harbor.
After grabbing the two coins, the boy ran back to the doorway. He’d done his best to warn the roamer, and he’d gotten paid, so the bartender shouldn’t be angry if something happened to the customer.
“Buy us a drink, Grandpa,” one of the teens said as the group spread out around him, their crude weapons in hand.
“Grandpa?” the roamer murmured, sounding indignant, though he didn’t look up from his writing.
The boy lingered in the doorway, watching even though he didn’t want to see their customer beaten and mugged. He’d been generous with his coin when few were. Coin was too scarce, too hard won when half of every rinara went to the mages in their sky castles.
“Or give us your coin purse, and we’ll buy our own.” Another teen laughed.
The roamer penned a few more words on the page, as if the gang would go away if he ignored them. The boy shook his head. It didn’t work that way.
“I said—” the biggest teen reached for the roamer’s shoulder, “—give us your coins, Grandpa.”
Somehow, the roamer managed to lay down the pen, casually flip his book shut, and still catch the hand before it gripped him. He squeezed hard as he looked in the younger man’s eyes for the first time.
“You sure you want to prey on the old and infirm, kid?” the roamer asked, his voice dangerous. “When we get to a certain age, we get cranky easily.”
He lifted his pickaxe arm in warning, the hazy sunlight gleaming orange on the dark steel. He didn’t have the magical aura of a mage or a wizard, but he had the demeanor of someone who’d spent his life in battle and killed men. A lot of men.
“We don’t care about your disposition.” The teen winced at the pressure crushing his hand, but he managed a defiant sneer. “We just want your money.”
He tried to yank his hand back, but the grip was like a vise, and he couldn’t escape. Using his free hand, he threw a punch at the roamer’s face. It never connected.
Without knocking over his chair, the roamer surged to his feet and blocked the punch. He spun, jammed the flat of his pickaxe into his attacker’s gut, and hurled him over his shoulder. The teen struck one of the posts holding up the awning and crumpled to the ground.
Though startled, the rest of the gang roared and rushed at the roamer.
For a big man, he moved quickly, evading the youths’ attempts to surround him, and he threw far more effective punches than they did. He never drew his sword or pistol, but he used his pickaxe as a weapon, smashing it against bone or slashing the tip into flesh. He grabbed another teen and rammed him in the solar plexus with the head, leaving him gasping on the ground. In the blink of an eye, two more youths flew over the rope and into the harbor.
The roamer faced the remaining teens, but they’d had enough. Limping and cursing, they scurried away.
During the skirmish, the mug of octli had been knocked to the ground, the viscous drink oozing into the cracks between the sandstone bricks. The roamer plucked it up with his pick and held a finger up to the boy to order another. Unscathed by the ordeal, he sat back down at the table, opened his journal, and gripped his pen again.
The boy scurried into the cantina for another drink. As the bartender had said, this was not a man he wanted to annoy.
Chapter 1
1
The smoke was so dense around the volcano that a night-blooming cactus flower was on full display, its purple trumpet vibrant against the rocky black slope. Jakstor Freedar—student, cartographer-in-training, and temporary lackey for the archaeology team—didn’t usually pause to admire flowers, but he’d seen this one in his mother’s herbalism books. She could use it for one of her headache cures, couldn’t she? Or maybe it went into that vision-inducing concoction that caused headaches. Her alchemical repertoire was as extensive as the list of plays by Egarath the Eternal.
Since he owed her a few dozen thank yous for letting him come on this trip, Jak shifted the damp bandanas he carried to one arm so he could pick the flower. Snickers came from the lanky boys hacking off cactus pads nearby and tossing them onto a flat magecart that floated above the ground.
“Are you picking flowers?” a boy his age asked, waving a saw.
“We knew you were girlie, but we had no idea how girlie,” another snickered.
Jak pocketed the flower and forced himself to approach the dimwits. He knew from previous exchanges during the barge ride across the Forked Sea that a conversation with them would induce headaches far more quickly than his mother’s potions, but they were part of his errand.
Crew from the barge, they’d been pressed into the cactus-cutting duty while they waited for the archaeology team to finish their dig. Supposedly, the pads were a delicacy on the mainland and worth harvesting before the volcano erupted and buried the island. Jak, having sampled one of the rubbery things the night before, would have left them to be incinerated, perhaps even kicking them into the path of lava flows to ensure they didn’t show up again at the dinner table.
“You’re picking cactus pads,” he observed, though he should have kept his mouth shut. “Is that not girlie? Here, wrap these bandanas around your mouth and nose. My mother treated them with something to help with the smoke.”
Jak tossed two of the damp cloths to them and resisted the urge to dab at his eyes—unfortunately, the bandanas couldn’t keep them from tearing up.
“It’s not girlie when you use a saw.” The boy caught the bandanas on his serrated blade. “And sell the cactus pads for big money at the bazaar in town.”
“If I sell the flower at the bazaar, will it be more masculine?”
“Nah, nothing about you is masculine.” The statement prompted more snickers from the group.
“Not even my cleft chin? I’ve had women remark on its appeal.” Not many women, admittedly, but Jak was positive someone he hadn’t been related to had called it cute at some point.
“It looks like a butt under your lips.” More snickers.
“Ah. Thanks for sharing your wit with me today.”
As Jak distributed more bandanas, including to a bored man standing guard with a magelock rifle cradled in his arms, smoke made his nostrils and throat itch. He removed his hat so he could retie his own bandana before continuing up the slope to complete his errand. Once he finished, he could get to the task he truly wanted to do. He touched the sketchbook bulging in his shirt pocket.
The heckler with the saw eyed his hat, squinting at the medallion fastened to the band above the wide brim. The speculation that brightened his dull face made Jak uneasy, and he scooted away from the group. The guard was a member of the barge crew and might look the other way if one of his charges tried to steal from Jak.
The boy elbowed his buddy. “You think that hat is worth much?”
“Not covered in ash,” the other worker said with a grunt.
“I think that circle thing is gold. Gold is worth a lot.”
Jak hurried up the path, hoping the speculation would end as soon as he was out of their sight. Too bad he had to come back down this way after delivering the rest of the bandanas. There were few viable paths on the lumpy black mountainside, the uneven ground formed by past lava flows. Most routes ended at cliffs or fissures—or holes into ancient lava tubes where the human-hating drakur lived. There was a reason some of the crew carried rifles.
The last group from the barge came into view, their saws working on another patch of cactus, but coughs and grunts behind him made Jak stop and turn around. His hecklers had abandoned their task and were scrambling up the uneven path after him. The chatty one carried his saw, and the big one he’d been nudging had picked up an axe.
Since his mother’s archaeology team was paying for passage on the barge, Jak didn’t think any of the crew would murder him, but the way they kept glancing at his hat convinced him they had mugging in mind.
Jak hopped on a rock to lend height to his five feet nine inches, though there was nothing he could do to make his fine features and lean arms more intimidating. Still, he puffed out his chest, doing the best he could with what he had, and lifted his chin to stare unflinchingly at them.
Never turn your back on an enemy, his father had once said, or on chest-thumping cannibals who think strangers taste amazing.
These boneheads weren’t cannibals, but Jak had no trouble filing them in the enemy folder. As they stomped closer, his fingers twitched toward the short sword belted on his left hip and the magelock pistol holstered on his right, but if he seriously hurt someone on the crew, the captain might leave the entire team here. And what then? The volcano could erupt this very day, and it was a five-mile swim across the strait to the mainland, the city sprawling there no longer visible through the ashy sky.
“Give us the gold medallion, flower girl,” the chatty one said. “Or you might fall into one of the holes while you’re out here. Bet the drakur are agitated down there, what with their volcano getting uppity.”
“Do you always threaten to throw passengers to their deaths? It seems bad for business, like repeat customers would be rare.”
“Passengers gotta pay taxes.”
“Actually, we pay fares. Taxes go to the wizard rulers that we all love.” Jak clamped his mouth shut, realizing he was treading on dangerous ground. Those who blasphemed the kings and queens in their floating castle cities tended to end up dead at the end of a zidarr’s blade. And these were the kinds of lickspittles that would rat a man out for that.
“You think you’re smart, flower girl? Then do the smart thing. Give us the hat.”
“Or we’ll take it,” the other said. “Think he’ll cry to his mommy if we take it?”
“That crazy kook? Nobody will listen to her. The captain said so.”
Anger boiled up inside Jak, and for the first time, he craved the fight. He wanted to pound a fist into the boy’s nose, consequences for the archaeology team be damned.
His mother was a great herbalist, who had published countless papers and won awards for her work. Just because she’d left that career to try to complete the life’s work of Jak’s father and prove his theories true didn’t mean she deserved some grimy thugs disparaging her.
But he’d already gotten in trouble numerous times for defending her—for defending both of them—and his mother would only lecture him if he fought someone over this. He made himself unclench his fingers and respond calmly.
“This hat belonged to my father,” he said. “I’m partial to it, and I’m not giving it or any part of it to you.”
“Where’d he get a hat with gold on it? You don’t come from no money.” The chatty one eyed his ashy cotton trousers and shirt, the worn pockets ripped in spots. That was more because Jak jammed books and tools into them all the time than due to poor quality, but the volcano grime did make him look disheveled. “He thieved it, didn’t he?” the boy asked.
His buddy hadn’t put on his bandana, and he lowered the axe to cough and wipe at his eyes. The air was getting worse, the scent of sulfur and molten rock burning Jak’s nostrils.
“I believe he bought it from a haberdasher near Sprungtown University. A mystifying place to find a hat, I’m sure. My mother could get you the address if you want to get one of your own.” Never mind that the medallion hadn’t come with it. Jak didn’t know where it had come from but had always assumed his father found it on one of his relic hunts. “But this isn’t the best time for discussing fashion. I suggest we—”
The ground rumbled, and alarmed shouts came from the crewmen farther up the slope. Afraid they were out of time, Jak glanced toward the bay far below, at the archaeology team working just above the beach. He spotted his mother on her knees, waving over the diggers.
His breath caught. An inky blue-black patch was visible in the ground underneath her. As he watched, she swept aside pieces of ancient lava rock that she’d chiseled away to reveal more of the material.
Was that it? The artifact that would finally prove that his father’s life’s work hadn’t been a waste? That the last five years since his mother had abandoned her career and taken over the quest also hadn’t been a waste?
Jak was so enraptured by the blue-black stone—no, if the historical texts were correct, that was dragon steel—that he almost missed the saw blade swinging toward his face.
He ducked what would have been a smack to the side of his head and resisted the urge to scramble backward. Instead, he flung himself off the rock at his attacker and sank a punch into the boy’s stomach. He must have expected Jak to try to get away, because he surged forward, making the blow even harder than Jak had intended.
Jak followed it up with a knee to the nuts, then shoved his foe backward. But the big one jumped in from the side and jammed the axe handle into Jak’s ribs. Pain blasted through him, and Jak again had to resist the urge to pull one of his weapons. The big idiot could have used the axe blade and hadn’t.
His meatpaw reached for the hat. Jak sprang away, genuine fear surging through him for the first time. Not that he would be hurt but that he might lose the only thing he had left of his father.
Alarmed shouts came from the crewmen, but Jak didn’t dare look in that direction. Hoping lava flows weren’t spewing out of the caldera and about to overtake them, he focused on his attacker.
The boy’s swipe missed his hat, but he lunged in with his other hand and caught Jak’s shirt, fingers wrapping in the cotton and ripping off a button. Using a move his father had taught him, Jak grabbed the boy’s wrist, dug his thumb into the gap between bones, and twisted as hard as he could.
Yelping, the boy let go. Jak jammed a palm strike into his nose, cartilage crunching, and his attacker reeled back, dropping his axe.
Unfortunately, the chatty boy had recovered. He lunged in and snatched up the axe, murder in his eyes as he prepared to swing not the handle but the deadly blade.
Jak drew his sword. He had no choice now.
The boy lifted the axe in both arms, poised to split Jak like a piece of wood. As Jak crouched to spring aside, a massive spear whistled out of nowhere and slammed into his attacker’s chest. The stone tip cracked ribs and buried itself deep in his heart.
Jak swore and dove to the side, flinging himself behind a boulder for cover.
But cover from what? Or who? The crewmen wouldn’t have attacked their own people. Unless that spear had been meant for him? It couldn’t have been. The crew had daggers and magelocks, not primitive spears.
The boy pitched backward into the dust, his eyes already dull, ash sticking to the whites. His buddy gaped at the body, utterly shocked.
“Get down,” Jak ordered.
A rock whizzed through the air, barely missing the boy’s head. It hit a boulder so hard it shattered. Finally, the boy recovered his wits enough to drop to his belly and crawl for cover.
Screams of pain tore down the slope from the crewmen. The ground rumbled again, fresh plumes of black smoke rising from the volcano. But that wasn’t why the men were screaming. Jak peeked over the top of the boulder. Half of the crewmen lay dead among the rocks and cactus, spears protruding from their bodies.
Others crouched behind boulders and fired their magelock rifles. The blue charges of magical energy struck their attackers, an entire horde of attackers.
Jak swore as dozens of stone-skinned, rat-faced creatures with long whiskers and tiny slits for eyes poured down the slope, shouting in their growly native tongue and throwing weapons at the crewmen. They wore no clothing, and their genitalia flapped as they ran and jumped, roaring in triumph every time one of their spears sank in.
Drakur.
Jak had seen drawings in books, and even a stuffed one in a museum back home, but he’d never encountered a living drakur before. The troglodytes, some ancient mage’s experiment that had mingled man with animal, didn’t leave their caves. Or so he’d thought.
The charges from the magelocks took a few of them down, but there were far, far more behind them. Too many to fight. And they weren’t deterred in the least by their comrades falling.
They reached the crewmen and went from throwing their spears to running up and thrusting them, knocking aside firearms, and leaving the men helpless.
Jak pulled out his own pistol. Usually, the sights on the foot-long firearm made it easy to aim. But his hand shook today as he tried to line up a shot. He’d been in fights at school, but he’d never been in a battle for his life, never stood next to someone who’d been slain in front of his eyes.
“Dummy, there’s too many.” The axe-wielder, who’d been his enemy seconds before, thumped him on the back and pointed toward the bay where the barge was anchored. “We’ve got to get back to the ship. They’ve got cannons.”
Cannons would be good. So would escaping without being noticed, but as one of the drakur raised a spear to finish off a crewman at his feet, Jak steadied his nerves enough to line up the shot and fire.
The blue charge sizzled through the air and struck the drakur in the face, leaving a charred crater in his stone skin as it hurled him backward. The tremor returned to Jak’s hand. He’d never killed before, not a sentient being. Even though the drakur were trying to kill them, he couldn’t help but feel revulsion.
The crewman scrambled to his feet and ran down the slope, shouting a thanks to whoever had helped him. Jak swallowed and told himself he could react later. There were still men alive in the cactus patch, men battling for their lives.
With his heart pounding, Jak shot three more charges, trying to make each count. His basic magelock could only fire fifteen times before it had to be recharged.
Between the chaos of the attack and the crewmen firing their own weapons, the drakur didn’t seem to notice Jak. That let him get off several more shots, counting each one. Eventually, a roar came from the slope above him, only fifty yards away. A half-dozen drakur were running past the crewmen, ignoring them completely as they headed straight for Jak.
He glanced back, wondering if the axe-wielder would help him if they tried to make a stand, but the boy had taken his own advice. He was sprinting down the slope toward the bay.
Down by the beach, his mother and the archaeology team still bent over the blue-black artifact, hewing away more lava rock to reveal what lay beneath. With a jolt of fear, he realized they didn’t know what was happening yet. With the roar of the sea in their ears, they hadn’t heard the battle, and the axe-wielder was running for the bay and the barge, not the beach. Jak had to warn the team.
He almost bolted to his feet right away, but he stopped himself before he ran out from behind cover. The drakur were still coming.
One roared as it led the charge toward Jak, a spear hefted over its shoulder to throw. Farther back, more and more of the deadly troglodytes kept appearing out of holes and fissures in the rocks. Jak had to focus on the six that were running at him.
Forcing his hand to steady again—he only had six shots left—Jak fired at the leader. His aim was true, and the blue charge slammed into the creature’s chest. It flew backward, almost tripping one of its fellows.
Amazingly, the other drakur didn’t react, didn’t slow down in any way. They kept coming. Two hurled spears at Jak.
He ducked below the boulder. One spear soared several feet over his head and clattered onto the lava rock behind him. The other skipped off his boulder, knocking shards of rock free that pelted him in the face.
Jak risked lifting his head. The remaining five drakur were only twenty yards away.
With nerves he hadn’t known he had, he fired five times at five different chests. Four of the charges struck in the center, slamming against the stony hides hard enough to knock the drakur to the ground. From the pained groans they emitted, he knew he hadn’t killed them. But he didn’t care about that. He just needed them off his back so he could sprint to the beach.
But one of his charges didn’t strike true enough, and the creature roared and kept coming. Against all rules of sanity, it ran toward Jak and the barrel of his pistol, not caring that its actions were suicidal.
The ground rumbled again, and with a flash of enlightenment, Jak understood the reason. The drakur weren’t attacking because they hated humans—not only for that reason—but because they were afraid. The volcano was going to erupt, and they knew it. They were trying to escape the island, and the crewmen happened to be in the way.
Jak gulped. Another reason he had to warn his mother.
He aimed his magelock as the drakur closed to ten yards, hating to kill these creatures if all they wanted was to escape, but it hefted a spear, the stone tip pointing at Jak’s eyes. They weren’t giving him a choice.
When he fired, the trigger clicked uselessly. He swore, almost ducking too late to keep the spear from removing his head. He was out of charges, the weapon useless until he could get back to camp to add more.
Worse, the drakur had pulled another spear out of a holder on its back. It didn’t throw this one. It gripped it in both hands as it ran, its squinty eyes somehow allowing it to navigate—and kill—out in the ashy gray daylight.
Jak started to reach for his sword, but he worried its reach wouldn’t be enough. One of the spears lay in the dust next to him, and he grabbed it. The weapon’s thickness and weight surprised him. It wasn’t meant for human hands, and he struggled to turn it around without rising up from the boulder protecting him. He dared not lift his head with the enemy this close. There would be no time to duck.
Shifting rocks and thudding bare feet were the only way he could time the drakur’s approach. As it sprang atop his boulder, Jak lunged up and jammed the spear into it from below.
He meant to jab it in the abdomen, but he caught it in the crotch. The stone tip didn’t sink deep and deliver the crippling blow he’d hoped for. It only dented that stone hide, and the weight of the contact jarred Jak’s joints and almost knocked him down. He planted his feet and braced the butt of the spear against the ground.
Roaring with pain and fury, the drakur vaulted over him, its own spear flying from its hands. It hit the ground several feet away.
Jak dropped the crude spear and drew his sword, whirling to face the creature. When it leaped to its feet, it didn’t even look at him. It charged off down the slope, not caring that its back was to Jak. That reinforced his belief that they wanted to escape.
But when he glanced back at the crewmen, many dead on the ground, he knew the drakur would take out anyone in their path. And more and more of them were spewing out of their volcano tunnels. The creatures raced toward the bay—and the barge and the archaeology team.
Jak sprinted down the slope, hoping he wasn’t too late to warn them.
Chapter 2
2
As Professor Jadora Freedar knelt on the hardened lava rock, carefully chiseling away pieces to reveal more and more of the blue-black object, her heart pounded as if she’d been chewing guarana seeds. The ground kept rumbling, a reminder that her team had to hurry to excavate the entire artifact before the volcano erupted, but she couldn’t help but pause and rest a hand on it in wonder. The surface was as smooth as spun glass and strangely warm, especially given that it had been encased in rock for countless millennia.
“This is it,” she whispered, certain that warmth indicated magic, even though her terrene blood had no affinity for sensing it. “All those years… all that research, Loran’s life’s work… Loran’s life.”
Her throat tightened from more than the ash choking the air, and tears ran down her cheeks into the astringently scented bandana covering her mouth and nose. She couldn’t be bothered to wipe her eyes now, not when they had finally found it, the portal to the homeland of the dragons.
“We won’t know that until we get it out of here and see if it matches the descriptions in the texts,” her colleague, Professor Darv Sadlik, said from a few feet away, though he was chiseling away rock as enthusiastically—as determinedly—as she.
“I know, but archaeologists have unearthed enough samples of dragon steel to recognize it when we find it. We may not know the components of the alloy, but we know it’s impervious to heat and just about everything else. What else besides dragon steel could have survived being encased by molten lava? And look.” Jadora waved at the side of the two-foot length of the artifact they’d revealed. “See the curve? You can already tell that it’s going to form a ring. What besides the portal could it be?”
“A giant circle?” Darv asked dryly, then broke into coughs, his older lungs more frail than hers. His bandana had fallen, and he’d also been too distracted to fix it.
Jadora paused to reach over and adjust it for him, which earned her an eye roll. Old men weren’t any more accepting of mothering than teenage boys.
Darv patted her shoulder. “I know how important this is to you and Jak, but let’s not get ahead of ourselves. Once we have it on the barge, and we’re safely on our way back to our continent, we can study it thoroughly.” He glanced not toward the volcano but toward the mainland and the busy port city of Perchver five miles across the strait. “In the meantime, let’s hope nobody over there is paying attention to us.”
“I gained permission from the local magistrate, the Perchver University chancellor, and the archaeology department head before planning a dig here. Since they’re convinced nothing could be on one of these volcanic islands—for what ancient human civilization would have been so foolish as to settle here?—they even gave me permission to take what artifacts we might find, though I did have to promise to share recipes for a few of my proprietary pharmacognostic blends in exchange.”
“I notice you didn’t mention King Zaruk in your list.”
“I don’t know what paperwork to file to request permission to dig from someone who lives in a floating castle. Can you even send mail up to those cities?”
“Funny, Jadora.”
She lowered her voice. “You know why we can’t ask them for permission—or let them get a whiff of what we’re doing or that this truly exists. We have to hope the portal works after all this time and figure out how to activate it before they find out.”
She rested her hand on the smooth metal, hoping that would take days or weeks and not years or decades.
A zing of energy ran up her arm, and she almost jerked away. But something like a dream flashed into her mind, bright and vibrant in contrast to the hazy gray world around her.
A blue sky over vast snow-covered mountains and glaciers filled her mind, the ice tinted with greens and pinks like nothing she’d ever seen. A magnificent dragon flew over the snow and ice, its shimmering scales iridescent like the inside of a mollusk shell, its body undulating through the sky almost like a snake. Jadora recognized the great creature she’d seen only in drawings based on fossils, but it was different from the artists’ renditions. Who would have guessed a dragon’s scales were iridescent?
Something poked Jadora, and the vision snapped, leaving her with a twinge of disappointment as her ash-choked reality returned. The surface of the artifact pulsed under her hand, shimmering slightly, reminding her of the dragon’s scales.
Uncertainty and wariness crept over her. Nothing in Loran’s research or in any of the hundreds of archaeology books she’d scoured had suggested the artifact could do anything except open a portal to the dragon home world. What had she seen? A dream? A preview of that other world? Proof that dragons still lived?
Darv prodded her again with his finger. “Have you figured out how to do that?” he asked slowly, as if he were repeating the question. He probably was.
What had she been saying? Oh, yes. Activation. “There’s some research on that in Loran’s notes.” Loran’s notes that had said nothing about the portal emanating visions. Jadora leaned back, removing her hand and rubbing it on her dirty trousers. “My work these past years has been focused on locating it. The rest, I assumed, could be figured out later. Loran had some hypotheses in his journal.” Her hand strayed to the lump under her jacket, the inner pocket that held that tattered leather-bound book full of his notes and sketches.
Maybe her tone had changed—even after five years, Jadora couldn’t keep the emotion out of her voice when she spoke her late husband’s name—for Darv looked over, his spectacles half-coated with ash, his short gray hair damp with sweat, his dark eyes grave. “I’m sorry. You know how easily I fret. Besides, I feel obligated to give you a hard time since you’ve dragged me out to an active volcano in the middle of the summer heat.”
“If we’d waited, the mages might have found it first.” Jadora shoved aside rock, unveiling even more of the curve along the side of the artifact. Interestingly, it had a slight undulation, reminding her of the dragon’s flight in her vision.
Darv’s eyes sharpened. “Do you think they’re still looking for it? After all these years?”
“Yes.”
“How do you know? You haven’t published anything, not that the university press would have allowed you to, since—ah.” He cleared his throat and fell silent.
“Since I’ve been ostracized for abandoning my chemistry and herbalism career? I’m well aware of how most of my former colleagues feel about me, but after we get this back to the university—” Jadora started to pat the smooth metal but turned the gesture into a finger point, wary that another vision might grab her if she touched it again, “—it will have been worth it. As to the rest, yes, they’ve been following my research. My offices, both at home and at the university, have been ransacked and searched at least once a semester.”
Darv stared at her. “Thanok and Shylezar, you didn’t say anything?”
“Who would I tell when mages were responsible? Would our chancellor have rushed up to their sky cities and filed a complaint?”
“You could have told me. I would have avoided your office more assiduously.”
“You’re hilarious, old man.”
He broke into another round of coughs, and Jadora regretted teasing him. He was her mentor and closest friend, one of few who hadn’t turned his back on her these past years.
“Why don’t you get the steam-sledge team over here?” she asked, waving to the steam-powered machinery they’d coerced off the barge that morning. That task shouldn’t weary him as much as digging. “As soon as we can get the portal carved out of the rock, we’ll hook it, haul it down the beach, and pull it up onto the deck.”
“And pray it isn’t as heavy as it looks?”
“The ancient dragon alloy is much lighter than steel.”
“Right. I’m sure we’ll heft it out of ground like a feather.”
“Not that light.” Jadora moved farther along the artifact’s edge with her hammer and chisel, tempted to speed up the process with explosives. Normally, that would be an insane way to excavate an artifact—as the rest of the archaeology team would loudly inform her—but experiments had shown that neither black powder nor mage charges damaged dragon steel. “But it won’t sink the ship.”
“I trust you’ve done calculations.”
“Of course. You know mathematics is a hobby of mine.”
“And here I thought drying herbs and brewing potions took up all your spare time.”
“Not these days.” Maybe if this worked and they got the portal back to the university, Jadora could one day return to her original career. She would have to help a team figure out how to operate it, but then… visiting the dragon home world could be a mission for younger, sturdier people with a fondness for adventure. Adventure and grime. She eyed the black sand under her fingernails and ash in the creases of her skin, and thought longingly of her sterile laboratory back home.
“Are you sure? I can’t help but notice how you still clank when you move. How many sample vials are in your pockets today?”
“Just a few. I’ve heard the black sand from the Dragon Perch Islands has interesting properties, so I collected some, and I picked up some irithika at our stop in Nelm. In case of relic raiders.”
“Is that a poison?”
“It shares characteristics with alcohol and is an anxiolytic—it tends to relax people and make them susceptible to suggestion.”
Darv waved toward the firearm-toting guards that Jadora had hired to protect their team. “Some people just shoot their enemies, you know.”
“Yes, but I’m an academic and an herbalist. My preferred methods are to bore enemies to sleep by reading from my scholarly papers or to drug them.”
“If my students are to be believed, the latter is more humane.”
“I’ve heard that from your students as well.”
“Ha ha. Do you—”
He frowned and peered past her shoulder toward one of the trails leading up the side of the volcano. Jadora caught a distant shout and followed his gaze. She gaped in horror, not because of the ominous plumes of black smoke—those had been wafting from the caldera all morning—but because a horde of drakur was racing down the mountainside. And—pray to Shylezar—was that Jak?
He was sprinting down the slope, flailing as he navigated uneven ground, and shouting. With the surf roaring beyond the bay, Jadora couldn’t understand his words, but she had no trouble deciphering the warning.
“Captain Nokk!” she called to the uniformed guards too busy spitting chaw, playing cards, and scratching their balls to have noticed the trouble. “Enemies!”
As Jadora lurched to her feet, pointing at the dozens and dozens of drakur racing down the mountainside, the ground rumbled again.
The guards—would the team of ten she’d hired be enough to stem the drakur tide?—jumped up, grabbing magelock rifles as they spotted the encroaching trouble. What had happened to the crewmen who’d been cutting cactus pads up there? Were they in hiding? Or dead?
“We’re not going to survive that,” Darv whispered.
“Yes, we are.” Jadora gripped his arm, hoping to reassure him, and pointed him toward the wooden rowboats pulled up on the beach. There were enough of them to carry her team if the guards stayed behind and bought them time to escape. She would stay with the men and make sure they did exactly that. And also make sure Jak made it down to them. He was a fast runner, but the determined drakur were right behind him, waving spears as they chased him.
The wind shifted, blowing sulfuric plumes of smoke toward Jadora, and she lost sight of Jak. She fought down fear that rose up, threatening to turn into panic. He was all she had left in the world. She couldn’t lose him.
“Get to the boats,” she ordered her team as the guards started firing at the drakur. “Find cover, Jak!” she yelled up the slope, hoping he heard her. In the haze, the guards might accidentally shoot him.
“You better get to them too, Jadora,” Darv called back as he ran toward the beach.
“I will,” she yelled, though she wouldn’t. Not until she had Jak.
Jadora rushed across the dig site toward the handful of tents erected along the edge and ducked into one to snatch a rifle. Despite her disinterest in shooting enemies, when her expeditions had started taking her into the wilds, she’d learned to use the weapon. But she also grabbed a few canisters that she’d prepared ahead of time. They would create a small explosion upon impact and spit out a lot of noxious smoke. Unfortunately, the smoke was meant to deter humans, not drakur. She didn’t even know if the subterranean beings had noses.
Outside, there were fewer guards than there had been a moment before. Two men with magelocks, soft thwomps sounding as the weapons unleashed charges of power, were blasting the oncoming drakur as they walked backward toward the beach. The rest of the guards were jumping into the boats.
Jadora gaped at them. “Where are you going? Captain Nokk!”
The gray-haired leader met her eyes, shook his head, and pointed out into the bay. The barge was belching dark plumes from its steam stack as it made ready to move. No, it was already moving. On the deck, crewmen with telescopes were pointing at the drakur and shouting for their helmsman to navigate them out of the bay at top speed. The barge had cannons and harpoon launchers, and they were worried about the creatures?
The guards shoved Darv and several of the archaeologists out of the rowboats, so they could flee first.
Jadora swore at them and took several steps in that direction, but a cry of “Mother!” made her spin back to the slope.
Jak raced out of the smoke with two drakur right behind him. He gripped his pistol as he ran, his blue eyes wild with fear, but he must have already used all of the charges. The creatures were right behind him with their spears hefted.
Struggling for calm and a steady hand, Jadora raised her rifle. The drakur were so close behind him that she worried she would miss and hit Jak. But he saw her taking aim and ducked low as he ran.
Trusting him not to lurch up, she pulled the trigger. The stock of the magelock reverberated against the crook of her shoulder as it fired, and the blazing blue charge sped away. It slammed into the whiskered face of one of the drakur, knocking it from Jak’s trail.
She shifted her aim and fired at the second one. It anticipated her attack and jumped to the side, so her charge only clipped it in the shoulder. Fortunately, that was enough to send it spinning off the trail and give Jak the time he needed to reach the camp.
Jadora fired at more drakur rushing down the same path, afraid they would attack her team. She was responsible for Darv and nine other archaeologists, none of whom had been allowed into the rowboats. The guards had shoved all of them out to make room for themselves and were rowing after the barge as fast as they could move their oars. Cowards.
Though she shook with anger, Jadora managed to stay calm enough to hand her magelock to Jak as he ran up. “Buy me a few seconds if you can. I have an idea.”
“It better… be… brilliant,” he panted, chest heaving after his run. Somehow, he’d managed to keep his hat.
She wanted to hug him for that—it meant almost as much to her as it did to him. “I have a couple of smoke bombs.”
A clang sounded, a spear striking the steam sledge. More spears hurtled toward the archaeologists on the beach. A few of them rushed out into the water and swam after the boats.
Maybe that would be better than standing their ground. Even as Jak fired at drakur heading toward the tents, others swarmed out onto the dig site. There was no way Jadora and Jak could stop all of them, and most of the other archaeologists weren’t armed with anything better than pickaxes and chisels.
Realizing her weak explosives would do nothing to scare the drakur horde, Jadora twisted off the caps of two of the canisters. She fished in her pockets, found the vials of gray irithika powder, and dumped the contents inside.
Jak fired at two drakur who’d reached the tents and were knocking them down, jabbing ferociously with their spears.
“I don’t think they like us, Mother,” he said, sounding scared though he tried to hide it under bravado.
“Their world is on the verge of erupting with molten lava surging out of the volcano and burning everything in its path.” Jadora sealed the canisters again. “That knowledge probably has them moody.”
A crash-clunk came from a nearby tent, and Jak fired. “That one just destroyed the coffeepot. Moodily.”
Jadora stepped up beside him and looked for a large knot of drakur to target. She kept hoping they were fleeing the volcano and would rush out into the water, that they’d only been destroying what was in their path out of fear and anger.
But they didn’t head for the bay. Those not assaulting the tents and flinging camp rations all over the place arrowed toward the artifact. Dozens and dozens of them. She stared in horror as they swarmed it and jabbed at the dark metal with their spears.
Their roars coalesced into a semblance of words to her ears. She’d only studied writings that attempted to translate their language using her own Dhoran alphabet, but their vocabulary wasn’t extensive, and she could pick out a few familiar terms.
“They think it’s our fault that the volcano is erupting,” she said.
A drakur with a spear charged at Jak, murderous rage contorting its face. “No kidding.”
He fired, hitting it in the chest and knocking it to the ground.
“Because we’re removing the portal. They think the gods are angry. Keep shooting.” Jadora hefted one of her canisters and threw it at the mob converging on the artifact.
“That one of your smoke bombs?” Jak fired at another drakur.
“It is.”
“I’ve only seen you use those for scaring away raccoons rooting through the garbage at your dig sites.” His voice was hoarse, and he coughed at the end of the sentence.
“They’ve scared away thieves too.”
“Yeah, thieving raccoons.”
The explosion, when it came, was weak, but smoke flowed out to rival the plumes wafting from the caldera. Even from dozens of feet away, the smell stung Jadora’s nostrils. She willed it to affect the drakur.
After a few seconds, a couple of them stumbled away, but the rest didn’t even pause. They kept ramming their spears at the artifact. Afraid they would find some way to damage it, Jadora growled and threw the second explosive.
“I’m running low on charges,” Jak said grimly, sweat plastering the side of his face, his bandana drooping around his neck.
“There’s another magelock in here.” She lunged into the tent, grabbed it, and handed it to him instead of keeping it for herself. Her gaze caught on a megaphone. Earlier, the guard captain had been using it to communicate with the barge crew. “That’ll do.” She grabbed it. “Stay here, Jak.”
“Stay here? Where are you going?”
“To hide behind a rock and pretend I can speak their language.”
Jak threw her a bewildered look.
There wasn’t time to explain. She eased around the back of the tent—it was the last one standing—and toward a boulder. As she moved, the drakur spears, now chipped and splintered from striking something much harder than they were, stopped banging off the artifact as frequently. Smoke filled the air around the dig site, thick and gray and noxious. The drakur peered around, bumping into each other, disoriented.
Her formula was affecting them. But would it be enough?
Jadora darted from rock to rock, hoping they would be less likely to sniff out her ruse if her voice wasn’t coming from the tent where they’d last seen her. She sank down behind a boulder where she had a view of the dig site and also the bay with the barge now well on its way, the rowboats struggling to catch up with it. Another ship was out in the strait.
Dare she hope some kind crew would come rescue them if they managed to survive this? If the rest of the day was anything to go on, that ship would sail past as quickly as it could.
From behind the boulder, Jadora lifted the megaphone and bellowed into it. “Zarzargaresh zug resh rugt!”
She lowered the megaphone and looked toward Jak instead of sticking her head up to gauge their reaction. Had she managed to impersonate a god and command them to flee their home? That had been the goal, but it was possible she’d spewed gobbledygook. Or told them the gods wanted that artifact utterly destroyed.
Loran, who’d spent his entire life studying languages, both dead and living, would have teased her mercilessly over her pronunciation. She wished he were still alive to do so.
The dwindling spear clacks dwindled further, then stopped completely. Jak was watching them, the stock of his rifle to his shoulder, but he didn’t fire again. He glanced at her and mouthed something. Do it again?
She bellowed the same phrase, not trusting her limited grasp of the language to come up with something else. Long seconds passed, the only noise coming from the roar of the surf. The bastards on the barge hadn’t bothered firing their cannons to help.
Jadora had a feeling the crew, much like the drakur, thought the volcano’s eruption was imminent and there was no point in helping people who would be dead soon. She couldn’t say for sure that it wasn’t, but she’d also talked to enough volcanologists to know that volcanos could spout smoke and rumble and stew for a lot of days before they actually erupted, if they erupted at all. Admittedly, it was more hope than certainty that had driven her out here and made her willing to risk her team. If the volcano blew in a big way and buried the dig site in lava flows again, the artifact might never be recovered.
Splashes sounded, making her tense. What now?
Only when Jak lowered his weapon did she realize what she was hearing. The drakur were jumping into the water.
She peeked out, her heart soaring as they ran en masse into the bay, leaping in and swimming away. Where they thought they would go, she didn’t know, but she didn’t care. As long as they weren’t trying to kill her team. Darv and the others were crouching behind barnacle-covered boulders in the shallows, their heads barely visible.
“It worked, Mother.” Jak waved his magelock in the air after the last of the drakur were swimming away from the beach. “What did you tell them?”
“To leave the artifact alone.”
“Wait, maybe that wasn’t the only thing that worked.” Jak’s voice had taken on an odd note. He was looking toward the portal.
Jadora peered around her boulder, a sense of foreboding coming over her. Four of the drakur lay unmoving next to the artifact, their heads charred black, as if they’d been thrust in fire—or struck by lightning.
“I didn’t do that.” Jak glanced at her, as if she might have thought a magelock could leave such marks. “I’m pretty sure they’re dead.”
“They were trying to destroy the portal. Maybe it has… defense mechanisms.” The memory of that vision flashed in Jadora’s mind, and a chill went through her at the idea that this artifact might be sentient. At the least, it had more capabilities magically instilled in it than any of the ancient texts had mentioned. She didn’t know whether to be excited or scared. What if it objected when they tried to remove it from this resting spot?
If they still could. Without the barge, there was no way to get that artifact off the island. And she and her team were stuck here.
Another ominous rumble coursed through the ground. Jadora closed her eyes, letting her forehead thunk against the boulder.
Chapter 3
3
When Jak saw his mother slumped against the boulder, he tried to help her back to the lone standing tent, but she brushed aside the offer. Instead, she patted him down to check for injuries, then flicked her thick brown braid over her shoulder and veered straight toward the artifact. Her jacket was torn, her trousers covered in dirt and ash, and stray strands of hair plastered the sides of her face and neck, but she wouldn’t be deterred from the mission.
He shook his head and walked after her. He also wanted to see the artifact unearthed, but there was little reason to hurry to dig it out now when they had no ship to load it onto. Still, he’d spent many hours poring over the journal, notes, and books his father had left behind, and curiosity drove him toward the artifact alongside his mother. It almost made him forget the ashy smoke that had descended on the beach and that made his throat raw and hoarse.
“What did you do to scare them away, Professor Freedar?” one of her assistants asked, her clothing soggy and her boots squishing as she and the team returned to the dig site.
Mother said something vague about impersonating gods and telling the drakur they would be struck down by lightning, but she returned to chipping lava rock away from the artifact without expounding. She didn’t mention that the portal itself had killed some of the drakur. Jak had seen it happen, lightning branching out from the exposed portion of the artifact and smacking its attackers in the head. It had only taken seconds for the drakur to topple to the ground, smoke wafting from their charred faces.
Maybe she didn’t want to worry the rest of the team. She was, Jak noted, being careful not to bump the artifact as she chiseled.
“She also flung her raccoon-deterrent smoke bombs at them,” Jak said, since the colleague was eyeing the artifact with worry. Some of the archaeologists might have also witnessed the lightning attack. “I think that was the true secret to victory,” he added.
“That explains some of the stink. The non-sulfuric stink, anyway.”
“Someone’s coming,” Darv called from the beach.
“Our stalwart guards?” Jak couldn’t believe the supposedly well-trained fighters had fled, leaving a bunch of scientists and his mother to handle the drakur. Granted, she was in her early forties and not incapable by any means, but none of them were fighters, at least not in the traditional sense. His mother had once dealt with a strung-out homeless man who was threatening her students by mixing laboratory ingredients in a mop bucket and wheeling it down the hallway to knock him out. If she had access to herbs or chemicals, Jak would always put his money on her in a fight.
“I don’t think so.” Worry lurked in Darv’s voice.
What now?
Jak sighed. “I’ll check on it.”
“Thank you, Jak,” Mother said without looking up.
As he approached Darv, the older man’s trousers sodden and clinging to his thin legs, the breeze shifted smoke out of the bay to reveal a large wooden rowboat heading their way. Jak’s first thought was that the barge captain had stopped, regained his sanity, and sent it for them, but he didn’t recognize any of the stern faces inside. Stern women’s faces. Ten female warriors stood in the center of the boat, all wearing brown uniforms and a mix of chainmail and hardened-leather armor, and all carrying weapons. Twelve more uniformed women manned the oars on either side of the craft. They were also armed with swords, maces, and magelocks.
“Uh,” Jak said. “Are we about to get mugged by a bunch of women?”
Darv wiped his spectacles on his shirt, even though it was as ashy as everything else here. “Are female muggers inferior to male muggers?”
“I don’t know, but I’d rather not admit to being mugged by them to friends back home.”
“Perhaps in the retelling, we can call them pirates.”
Jak didn’t know if being mugged by female pirates sounded that much better.
“I will warn your mother,” Darv said. “In case they are here to rob us of the artifact, she may need to produce more of her raccoon deterrents.”
As Darv hustled up the beach, Jak called after him, “You’re just leaving so I’ll have to be the one to deal with them, aren’t you?”
“My colleagues would not cease teasing me if I were mugged by female pirates,” Darv called back.
“I knew it would be embarrassing,” Jak muttered, keeping his voice low since the newcomers were now within earshot.
One in the front of the boat, a dark-skinned woman with short salt-and-pepper hair and a compact build, watched Jak calmly. Something about her made him want to describe her as serene rather than stern. Was she the leader? Despite the masculine haircut and uniform, there was an elegance to her strong jaw, straight nose, and pronounced cheekbones that made him suspect she’d been trailed by all the boys in the neighborhood in her younger days. She looked to be about fifty, and ten to thirty years older than the rest of the women.
Jak debated if it would be even more embarrassing to be beaten up by someone more than twice his age. As they drew closer, hands resting on their weapons, he worried they had come to do more than beat people up.
He was still armed, but the only other magelock in camp was out of charges. He’d checked for more, but the guards had taken all of their weapons when they’d fled. Other than a couple of swords and daggers—and pickaxes, chisels, and hammers—the group didn’t have much to defend themselves with. And these women looked like they knew how to use their weapons. Several of them wore sleeveless versions of the uniforms that revealed muscles that many men would have envied.
“Welcome to the twelfth Dragon Perch Island,” he called to them, hoping to put them in a good mood by being friendly. “We’re camping on this delightful beach, but you’re welcome to the rest of it. The natives have recently cleared out, so there are numerous caves and lava tubes. The perfect place for a camping trip. Or a military training exercise.” They each wore an armband with a small metal oval that was embossed with either one, two, three, or four thorns—he assumed the symbols denoted rank. The leader was the only one with four thorns.
“Camping? I wondered what kind of idiotic tourists could possibly be out here on a volcano about to erupt.” A tall, mid-thirties woman next to the leader pointed to Jak. “I guess this is a demonstration.”
Her black hair was pulled back in a bun so tight it had to give her a perpetual headache. Maybe that accounted for the grumpiness. Her armband had three thorns. The second-in-command? A lieutenant?
“Who’s the bigger idiot? The people on the volcano or the people rowing out to get to it?” Jak shouldn’t have insulted them, given their proliferation of weapons and muscles, but he resented the implication that they were dumb tourists. If they’d truly found the ancient dragon portal, it could change the course of history.
“Can I shoot him?” the talker asked.
One of the rowers, a pretty young blonde with arms much thinner than the others, smiled at the exchange, but she was the only one. With pale skin and freckles, she was out of place in the group. The rest of the women appeared to be a mix of roamers and southerners.
“We were sent to get them,” the leader spoke for the first time, her voice softer than Jak had expected.
“The magistrate’s orders were to get the idiots off the island before they start an international incident. It didn’t sound like he cared if they were alive or dead.”
“True.”
“We have clearance from the government to be here,” Jak said as the boat came close enough for the bottom to scrape in the sand. “And it’s possible the volcano won’t erupt for weeks.”
“Or it’s possible it’ll erupt in five seconds,” the lieutenant said, “smothering your mouthy ass in magma.”
“It’s lava when it’s above ground and magma when it’s below ground. Do they not have any books near the gymnasium where you hurl heavy objects around?”
A hand clasped Jak’s shoulder, making him jump.
“What are you doing?” his mother asked.
“Trading insults with these large, muscled women.”
She gave him a stop-being-a-dolt look. Funny how similar it was to the expressions the newcomers were giving him.
“I’m Professor Jadora Freedar.” Mother waded out to help the women pull their boat up on the beach, though the fit crew hardly needed assistance. “Did you say you were sent to get us?”
“That’s right. I’m Captain Ferroki, commander of Thorn Company, a free-mercenary unit.” The leader stepped onto the beach, waved at the ash in the air, and faced Mother. “You aren’t going to resist being collected are you?”
“Ah.” Mother pursed her lips and looked toward the dig site. The rest of the team was continuing the excavation, though not without numerous glances toward the boat. Without machinery—machinery that had been damaged by spears thrown into the workings—the excavation could take days. “Is your ship perhaps large enough to hold an artifact of approximately five hundred pounds of weight that measures twenty feet in diameter?”
“No,” the captain said.
“You’re certain?” Mother peered through the smoke toward a ferry that looked like it could hold the artifact, though Jak had no idea how they would get it onto the ferry with the machinery broken.
“We’ve been sent to retrieve archaeologists,” the captain said, “not archaeology.”
“It’s a historic find of great importance.” Mother was careful not to mention what it truly was. There weren’t many artifacts that the general populace would be aware of, but everybody had heard the legends of the dragon portal—and the dragons who’d used it long ago to visit Torvil and soar through the skies here.
“I’m certain that you will regret losing it, but the magistrate believes the volcano will erupt soon and is paying us to remove you from his island.”
“Menial task that it is,” the lieutenant muttered.
“They’re all menial tasks these days,” a soldier in the back of the boat said with a sigh.
The captain looked back at her troops. It was a gaze, not an icy cold glare, but it silenced their disgruntlement.
“That was a clever trick with the drakur,” the captain added to Mother. “We saw your guards swimming after their ship.”
Mother’s mouth twisted. “Apparently, we didn’t pay them enough.”
“How much would you pay us?” the lieutenant asked.
Ferroki looked at her.
“What, Captain? We’ve got tools, and you know we could use extra money. Pay’s been sparse, and five hundred pounds isn’t that much. Corporal Granite weighs almost that much after she porks down a bin of tallow crackers.”
“Hey,” a boulder of a woman in the back said. “Everybody eats tallow crackers when we get them.”
“Not everybody eats so many of them.”
“You say you’ve already been paid to give us a ride?” Mother asked.
“You, yes,” the captain said. “Your artifact is extra.”
The lieutenant smirked, probably pleased that her idea had been adopted. Jak caught the eye of the young blonde woman, curious how she’d ended up with this rough bunch. He smiled at her, maybe a bit of a flirtatious smile, though this wasn’t the right time for that. Still, it was hard to resist. She was the first girl his age that he’d seen since leaving home.
She broke their eye contact right away without returning the smile and shrank inward a bit. He bit his lip and looked away, hoping he hadn’t offended her somehow. He was certain he hadn’t ogled her chest or anything his mother would have smacked him for.
“How much extra?” Mother asked.
“Ten gold oroni,” the captain said.
“That’s a high price. How much is the magistrate already paying you?” Mother looked at Jak.
He frowned. Was she worried they would end up being billed for this? She hadn’t given him the details about the monetary situation, but he knew she’d done a big fundraiser and personally asked for donations from regular benefactors to the university to finance the trip.
“Not a large amount,” the captain said. “He’s only paying us to carry you off the island, possibly by slinging you over our shoulders. You’re asking for more work, so the price is higher.”
“I might be able to piece together a few oronis and…” Mother scanned the tattered remains of the camp.
Jak couldn’t imagine what valuables they had that would appeal to mercenaries. Her gaze shifted to him, skimming over the medallion in his hat’s headband, and he stiffened, but her gaze didn’t linger for long before returning to the mercenaries.
“The rest of our coffee beans,” Mother finished. “They’re from Rabbit Roaster in Sprungtown and enhanced with culinary magic. The coffee is delicious.”
Never mind that those beans were scattered all over the dig site now and coated with ash…
“Mage coffee,” the lieutenant growled. “Isn’t that the stuff that addicts you and diddles your mind so you’re a more eager slave?”
“You’re thinking of the magebands,” one of the mercenaries said, waving at her bare head.
“They have all kinds of doodads they create,” the lieutenant said, “to make us happy little minions who don’t fight back when they murder our children and break our backs in their mines.”
The captain held up a finger. “I’ve heard of that roaster. He’s not loyal to the wizard kings, is he?”
“No,” Mother said. “They think he is, but he’s a supporter of terrene humans. The coffee sharpens and stimulates your mind with its magic. It’s an effective counter after you’ve been wearing one of their headbands.”
“We accept your offer.” The captain waved for the rest of her people to get out of the boat. “Show us how to help.”
The ground shuddered, and ripples spread across the bay.
“You’d better show us quickly,” she added.
“Happy to.”
Jak coughed as the smoke thickened, settling over the beach. He pulled his forgotten bandana back up, and the herbal tincture his mother had doused it with helped clean the air before it trickled down his trachea.
At a gesture from one of the other soldiers, the blonde girl stayed with the boat. Jak thought about lingering to say something friendly to her, but if she wasn’t interested in chatting up handsome-but-bruised-and-ash-covered strangers, he shouldn’t pester her.
“What is that?” she breathed before he’d taken two steps.
She pointed toward the volcano, and he groaned, afraid lava had started to flow. But there was something hovering in the sky behind the smoking caldera, something even blacker than the smoke. His heart sank into his boots.
“A mageship.”
Chapter 4
4
The mageship flew toward the beach, a sleek black craft similar in shape to wooden sailing ships, but with neither sail nor steam to power it and nothing but magic to keep it aloft. Jak stared glumly at it, certain nothing good could come from the arrival of mages from one of the sky cities. Most likely, they would threaten to do far more than sling the team over their shoulders and evict them from the island.
The ground shook several times in a row, and Jak feared the eruption was coming. Not days from now but today. He’d given up praying to the gods after they’d failed to save his father’s life, but he thought about resuming the practice now, praying that the volcano would erupt and incinerate the mageship with lava blasted hundreds of feet into the sky.
Not that he could be certain molten lava would destroy one of those ships. They were rumored to be built not by the worker mages that crafted all of the utilitarian magical items in the world but by those talented and powerful enough to be called wizards. Building tools and trinkets was considered beneath them, but they were the only ones who could craft mageships and sky castles.
“Jak,” his mother called. “Get up here.”
He’d been rooted to the beach since the blonde girl pointed out the ship, but his mother, the archaeology team, and the rest of the mercenaries were frantically chiseling and digging. What was the point? There was no way they could get the portal out and onto the ferry and escape while the mages watched from above.
But as he ran up to help, he realized the team wasn’t trying to dig the artifact out. They were trying to cover it back up.
He shook his head. The mages had to know about this, or why else would they have shown up at these forsaken volcanic islands? But the team had already covered up most of the blue-black metal, so he dropped down to help. Maybe there was a remote chance the mages were here for another reason—they had academics and scientists, the same as normal humans, so maybe they’d sent the ship here to study the volcano.
“Sure, Jak. That’s likely.”
As the mageship floated closer, the team covered up the last of the telltale blue-black metal and headed toward the lone tent. There was no doubt about the ship’s destination. Had it been flying around the volcano for observation purposes, it wouldn’t need to come to their dig site.
Jak joined his mother, Captain Ferroki, Darv, and several of the archaeologists by the tent, awkwardly sticking his hands in his pockets. He wasn’t the only one. The words act casual floated through his mind, and he snorted. There was no way this would work. Even if the mages up there couldn’t somehow sense the magic of the artifact, some of them might be telepaths. They could read the minds of everyone here and learn everything Jak and his mother knew, including their five years of research on the portal.
His mother closed her eyes, defeat slumping her shoulders for the first time today. The urge to comfort her or say something encouraging came over him, but he couldn’t think of how or what.
“Should we start cleaning up the camp and pretend we’re… doing something besides digging for a priceless artifact?” he asked. “The captain’s coffee beans are scattered in the ashes over there.”
Ferroki peered over, lifted an eyebrow toward Mother, then snorted. At least she didn’t appear pissed at this revelation.
“There’s no point,” Mother said. “I only covered it up on the off chance the dragon god blesses us with luck and the ship is carrying a team of inept teenage mages on a school field trip to observe the volcano.”
Ferroki raised both eyebrows this time. “That’s the Murder Flyer.” She pointed at the front of the black hull of the craft. There was no name written on it, but a distinctive shark figurehead leered down at them, its long sharp teeth glinting silver. They were the only things on the ship that weren’t black, at least from this point of view. “I don’t know what it’s doing in Zaruk’s kingdom, but that’s Malek’s ship.”
Jak didn’t usually swear with his mother standing three feet away, but he couldn’t keep an oath from blurting out. Everyone had heard of King Uthari’s right-hand man, the most infamous of the zidarr. One-third warrior, one-third wizard, and one-third pure magic, they were loyal servants to the great wizard kings and trained from their earliest years to be pure killers. Malek was one of few who didn’t have a name like Stone Heart or Dragon’s Death. He didn’t need one. Everyone knew to fear him without some stupid moniker.
Even though his mother had spoken little of the details around Father’s death, Jak had heard rumors that one of the zidarr had been responsible. It had been Uthari’s soldiers who came to the house after he’d been killed and questioned her and searched everything. Jak remembered two of them tramping through his own room, turning over the mattress and throwing the contents of his drawers and bookcases to the floor. They’d even torn his maps off the wall. Jak could have hated Uthari just for that.
“Isn’t it named the Star Flyer?” Mother asked.
“They have their name for it; we have ours.”
“How much would I have to pay you to fight him?”
Ferroki shook her head humorlessly. “There is no amount any mercenary company would take to face zidarr, even the Iron Fist. A rabbit does not tug at a lion’s tail.”
“That’s what I was afraid of,” Mother said bleakly.
“It may be wise for me to take my people and leave before they land. There is no logical reason they should attack us, and we did agree to remove your team from the island and take you back to the mainland, but mages were not mentioned in the contract.” Ferroki scrutinized Mother, as if she might be responsible for this new development.
“They probably want the artifact,” Mother said.
The mageship came to a halt floating a hundred feet above the beach. The sky was too hazy with ash for it to cast a shadow, but Jak wagered it threw an ominous one whenever the sun was out.
“Perhaps you should leave it for them,” Ferroki suggested. “Unless they forbid it, we will still offer you passage back to the mainland.”
Mother shot her a sharp look. Or was that an anguished look? “I can’t leave it. Not after so many years devoted to researching it, not after so much has been given up, not after my husband—” she swallowed, and Jak patted her shoulder awkwardly.
Ferroki looked at him, as if he might be more reasonable, but Jak shook his head. He couldn’t imagine getting this close and then leaving the portal to someone else. This was his mission as much as it was Mother’s.
The mercenary lieutenant jogged up to Ferroki. “Captain, I trust you know who that is?” She pointed upward. “Let’s get out of here. This mission isn’t worth dying for.”
“I know.” Ferroki looked at Mother and smiled sadly at her. “If you will not come with us, then we must depart without you. It is difficult for me not to feel we are abandoning you, but if I were to incur the wrath of the zidarr or their wizard masters, it could cost me my entire unit. I have a… friend who had that happen to him earlier this year. He lost hundreds of men and did not survive unscathed himself.”
“I understand,” Mother said numbly.
“If you somehow manage to survive this encounter, we will owe you a favor.” Ferroki truly sounded upset to leave them to the mages. Jak didn’t know why she cared since they’d just met, but she saluted Mother before waving for her people to run back to the boat on the beach.
Jak couldn’t keep from curling a lip, bitterness sinking into his soul. Nobody would stick around to help them today. How were terrene humans ever supposed to improve their lots in life if they didn’t stand together against their magical overlords?
Several black oval disks floated over the side of the mageship, each with a person riding on it. Jak glimpsed uniformed men and someone with a black cloak that flapped in the breeze that his disk stirred. How dramatic. Was that Malek? Was there any chance that a sniper shooting him could take him down? Jak fingered the magelock he still had, positive none of the mercenaries would try it. They were as cowardly as the last group.
“Wait.” Mother lifted a hand before Ferroki had taken more than two steps. “May I redeem that favor now?”
“Uh.” Ferroki paused and looked up as the disks descended.
Mother stepped not toward her but toward Jak. When she reached for his hat, he was too surprised to grab it. His fingers twitched toward her to take it back, but he stopped himself. He trusted her, though he frowned mightily as she fiddled with the headband. She was removing the gold medallion.
“What?” He reached for it. “Father gave that to me.”
She blocked him. “Trust me, Jak.” She turned her back on him and handed it to Ferroki. “Keep this safe until I can return for it.”
“I…” Ferroki held it in her palm, looking like she wanted to protest—Jak wanted her to protest—but she glanced at the disks. They were only twenty feet from landing now. “I will. I’ll keep it safe.” She buttoned the medallion into one of her pockets and strode toward the boat.
The rest of the mercenaries had pushed it into the shallows and were waiting for their captain. But before they could take off, a blast of liquid fire came from one of the discs, making Jak jump and swear. The blast struck the wooden boat, blowing it to pieces and flinging the mercenaries dozens of feet.
Ferroki, still on the beach, whirled and pointed a magelock at the disk, but a different type of magic—some invisible wave—struck her and hurled her back into the water. Her head struck wreckage from the boat, and she went limp.
Jak swallowed and stepped in front of his mother as the disks landed on the beach, the people—could mages truly be considered people?—now visible. There were six of them, four male and two female, all wearing gleaming black boots, black sashes at their waists with attached scimitars, and red military uniforms with silver piping. Entwined lightning bolts circled their cuffs to denote rank. Two had silver epaulets, including the man who’d destroyed the boat, the man with the black cloak, its edges trimmed in silver fur. Was this Malek? He had six circles on his cuffs, more than any of the others.
Mother gasped, as if she recognized him.
His black hair was pulled back in a ponytail, accenting an angular face with cheekbones so sharp they could have honed daggers. His dark eyes were hard, his lips thin and pressed together in irritation, and his chin had a haughty tilt as he looked down his nose at the team of archaeologists. His body buzzed with energy, as if he were made from magic instead of flesh and blood, and at any moment, he might need to unleash more of it.
Jak would have hated him on sight even if he hadn’t just seen him blow up the mercenary boat. The women were swimming back toward it—clumping together as if for support—and one had grabbed their captain and was trying to rouse her. Blood ran from a gash at the blonde girl’s temple, and a surge of protectiveness swept over Jak.
“Don’t do anything to attract attention,” Mother murmured, stepping up to his side—refusing to let him stand in front of her.
“I won’t if you won’t,” he muttered.
“Do not fear,” the cloaked officer boomed in a voice enhanced by magic. “We will question you soon. Time may be limited.” He looked toward the caldera, wrinkled his nose, then lifted a hand in that direction. Wind formed somewhere, with him at the center, and spread, blowing the smoke away from the beach and somehow keeping it away, even when he lowered his hand and the wind died down. “Did nobody tell you that it’s unwise to dig for artifacts under an active volcano?”
So much for hoping they didn’t know about the portal.
“The travel brochure for the island failed to mention the active part,” Jak muttered.
He didn’t think he’d spoken loudly enough for this Malek to hear him, but the mage’s eyes narrowed, and he lifted his hand again, fingers spread toward Jak.
Jak stepped back, but there was nowhere to go. Chilling power wrapped around him, holding him in place and applying pressure from above. It forced him to his knees.
“Stop.” Mother stepped forward. “You’ll want our help. We’re experts on the artifact.”
Malek’s gaze shifted to her, and she gasped as the magic also wrapped around her and forced her to the ground.
“What I want,” Malek boomed, “is you powerless animals on your knees where you belong when in the presence of wizards.”
He forced the rest of the archaeology team to their knees—poor old Darv crumpled before the magic even touched him—then sneered over at the mercenaries. Most of them had found their way to the beach, some supporting others. At least Ferroki was back on her feet, but why hadn’t they swum for the ferry out in the strait? If he’d been allowed, Jak would have gotten away from this place. Maybe the mercenaries thought Malek would drown them with a tidal wave.
“Kneel!” Malek boomed. “Kneel before your superiors.”
What an ass. Jak barely managed to keep from saying it out loud. But that chilling power still gripped him, and he feared for his life—and his mother’s life. They were experts on the artifact—everyone on the team had valuable knowledge—but what if this cocky ass didn’t see that or just didn’t care? Maybe he had only been sent to retrieve the portal and didn’t care if his master figured out how to work it.
Half of the mercenaries dropped of their own accord. Ferroki, her lieutenant, several others, and even the blonde girl glared back at him, remaining on their feet. Their resistance made no difference. With another whisper of magic, he forced them to their knees.
He pointed at the blonde girl, lust entering his hard gaze as he eyed her figure. “That one had better get used to that position. I would have sent for her myself if I’d known she existed.”
Raw terror flashed in her eyes. Malek smiled and drank it in.
The fury and the desire to protect her returned to Jak, and he tried to lunge to his feet. He longed to shoot that bastard.
The rest of the officers didn’t say anything or acknowledge that their boss was a toad. They were walking around the dig site, looking at the ground and pointing at it in spots—spots that were exactly where the portal lay under the rock. As Jak had feared, there’d been no point in hiding it. The mage officers could sense it.
“Any chance they’ll take it and leave us here?” Jak whispered, though the idea of losing the artifact still stung him to his core.
“No,” a cool voice spoke from a few feet behind them.
Jak spun as much as he could under the magical power that bound him. He almost wrenched his neck.
Another man had appeared from nowhere—Jak would have seen him if he’d ridden down on one of those disks. Unlike the others in their bright red uniforms, he wore simple clothing—tan trousers and a brown shirt and jacket—all free of adornment, save for the weapons hanging from his belt, a basket-hilted sword and a main-gauche. His short black hair was shot with gray, his hard face chiseled from granite. His whole body might have been.
Jak’s first thought was to think him someone’s bodyguard, but he radiated power. He was as magical as the others, maybe more so. Yes, it was even more pronounced than with Malek. This man seemed almost made of energy. That made Jak more uneasy about him than about Malek. Or, he realized with a start, was this Malek?
“Did you want to question them or shall I, my lord?” the cloaked officer asked, managing to ooze arrogance even as he used the honorific. His tone wasn’t disrespectful, but his eyes were challenging as he met the gaze of the newcomer, as if they were equals who butted heads often rather than being higher-ranking and lower-ranking officers in Uthari’s army.
“I don’t know,” the man Jak was increasingly convinced was Malek said. “Have you had enough yet of being flamboyant and pompous, General Tonovan?”
“Rarely,” Tonovan said without missing a beat. He looked toward the blonde girl, as if he weren’t done with her, but Malek gave the volcano a pointed look, and Tonovan inclined his head.
They bowed to each other, and Tonovan smiled. An edged smile that Malek did not return. The two men reminded Jak of alpha wolves circling and about to fight over leadership of the pack.
But when Malek said, “Get the portal out of the rock,” Tonovan nodded in curt obedience.
Not that Tonovan did anything himself. He pointed at his men and waved at the ground. “See to it.”
Jak hoped the artifact would zap them all with the same power it had used to kill the four drakur.
“Don’t touch it,” Malek added, pointing at the dead drakur as he looked at Jak. Reading his mind? Jak had been afraid the mages would have that ability. “The artifact has a lot of power pent up in it.”
“Tell us something that isn’t blatantly obvious,” Tonovan said.
Malek’s cool gaze shifted to him. “I’d make a remark about your intelligence, but I can’t think of one that isn’t also blatantly obvious.”
“Careful, Malek. I have a lot more friends than you do.”
Jak caught a couple of the officers looking at each other and rolling their eyes—it was the most human gesture any of these people had made—and Jak doubted the statement was true.
“You have allies who will be loyal as long as they believe you or Uthari will grant them political power.” Malek didn’t extend the rebuttal by referencing a preponderance of friends of his own.
Jak doubted anyone would be friends with a zidarr.
Tonovan snorted but turned his irritation on his men. “You heard him,” he barked, though they had already started using their magic to crack and clear rock from the artifact. “Get that thing out of the ground.”
Unfortunately, magic was all they used. They never touched the portal. There was no chance of them being zapped if contact was required. Was it? With the crowd of drakur surrounding the artifact, Jak hadn’t been able to tell if they—or their spears—had been touching it when it struck.
Malek walked around the archaeologists and came to stand in front of Jak and his mother. He only flicked a glance at Jak before his gaze settled on her.
Fear for his mother coursed through Jak. And after seeing Tonovan openly leer at the blonde girl, Jak worried about what kind of perversions this Malek might have. And if he would turn them on his mother.
Jak didn’t know how attractive other men considered his mother, but about a year after his father had died, unmarried professors at the university—and some who were married—had started asking her for dates, so she had to be all right for her age. He hoped this freak didn’t think so.
“Rise,” Malek said.
And Jak found that he could. His mother pushed herself to her feet, offering a hand to Darv, who was on her other side, to help him up. The old scholar had gone pasty, and when Jak met his gaze, he read the utter fear there.
“Give me the book,” Malek told Mother, not looking at anyone else.
There was no doubt about what he wanted—Father’s thick journal full of notes—and Malek knew she had it. Jak was sure she did too, since she was rarely without it, but she raised her eyebrows in puzzled inquiry.
“Book? Which book? We have many.” She pointed to the tents torn down by the drakur, a few books visible amid the carnage. “Are you a fan of Witiker’s Field Guide to Megalithic Artifacts of Eld? It’s a classic.”
Malek’s expression didn’t change. Jak winced. It was the kind of flippant thing he would say, so he knew exactly what the probability was of it getting her in trouble. And this man—this zidarr—shouldn’t be played around with. Surely, she had to sense all that power radiating from him.
“I have read it,” Malek said. “It is not what I seek.”
“You have?” Mother asked. “Is archaeology a hobby of yours?”
“Lately, Uthari has insisted it become so.” His tone had turned dry, and he glanced at the now half-revealed artifact.
“Then you must have opinions on Chapter Seventeen,” Mother said, as if she were back at the university, quizzing a student on whether he’d read the assigned material.
Jak stared at the side of her head, willing her to knock it off.
“Is that the one on the marble henge on Skyarctica that tells one of the mythological tales of how some humans came to be able to use magic?” Malek asked.
Surprise flickered in Mother’s eyes. Had she thought he was lying about reading the book? Jak hadn’t. Something about this man made Jak doubt he ever felt the need to lie.
“It is,” she said. “Do you believe that version? Or the prevailing one that dragons gave some humans magical power before they left this world, thus to ensure a part of them remained?”
“The literature suggests there’s not enough evidence to support either hypothesis.”
“Correct, but most who study the field have opinions.” Mother looked over toward the mercenaries. They’d risen from their knees and some had backed quietly into the water and were swimming toward the distant ferry. Maybe she was trying to buy time for them to escape.
So the medallion would escape with them? Jak, remembering his fear that Malek was telepathic, forced his mind away from that thought.
“Perhaps we will discuss them on the voyage back to Utharika.” Malek held out his hand. “Give me what’s in your pocket.”
He didn’t modulate his voice like the general, but magic laced the words, making them impossible to disobey, and Mother’s hand dipped into a pocket. Jak’s fingers twitched toward his own pockets before he caught himself.
But somehow, Mother found the gumption to thwart the order, or at least interpret it creatively. She pulled three vials containing samples out of her pocket and held them out to Malek.
Instead of taking them, he pointed to the ground. “Empty all of your pockets.”
Again, magic accompanied the words, giving them immutable power, and Mother responded. Her movements were stiff and jerky, like a clockwork soldier marching in circles, but she couldn’t resist. She set more vials on the ash-dusted ground, pens, a set of fine tools for cleaning artifacts, a loupe, and canisters full of who knew what she’d collected on the journey—or just since breakfast. Even Jak, who knew her tendencies, was amazed at everything she had stashed in her pockets. She still hadn’t produced the journal.
Malek’s face hadn’t changed much, but Jak thought he read exasperation in the man’s eyes.
“Professor Freedar doesn’t believe in purses,” Jak said, more to distract Malek from any growing annoyance than because he expected a laugh.
“Empty your pockets too,” Malek told him. “And drop the magelock.”
The words were as impossible to disobey as Jak had believed, and he dropped the rifle instantly. Since he had little to hide, he didn’t bother fighting the compulsion to unbutton and empty his pockets, though he hoped the men would let him take his belongings with him when they left. The idea of abandoning his fine drawing tools—the kit of pens and pencils and charcoal sticks hit the ground first, landing next to Mother’s pile—filled him with anxiety. They had been a gift from his father on his thirteenth birthday.
A compass, protractor, and short ruler joined the kit, as well as the folded map of the island he’d been drawing that morning. His pile ended up almost as large as his mother’s. Normally, he didn’t carry that much around, but he’d intended to return to working on that map after running his errand with the bandanas. He was amazed he hadn’t lost more of his stuff during the mad flight down the slope.
“I’m not into purses either,” Jak said.
“You’re a quirky family,” Malek remarked.
“Yes, we are.” Mother lifted her chin, as if she were proud of it.
Jak might have felt sheepish, but he was still too unnerved by these people to feel anything but uneasy. The idea of being taken prisoner and tortured for what he knew was at the top of his mind. It seemed inevitable.
Malek held out a hand, and the folded map floated up and opened, hanging in the air before him. He didn’t look long—maybe he’d expected notes pertinent to the artifact rather than a student’s half-finished cartography project—before folding it again. Surprisingly, he returned it to Jak before shifting his focus to Mother’s pile.
Jak winced again. Father’s thick leather-bound journal now lay on the top of it, the edges of the pages ragged and dirty after a lifetime of travels and having information recorded in it. More than a few pieces of paper had been folded and stuck inside, making it look even thicker.
Again, Malek floated it up into his hand. He flicked through a few pages, then closed it and put it in his jacket pocket and looked toward the artifact. With magic, the officers had dug free in minutes what had been taking the archaeology team hours.
The inky blue-black portal wasn’t as uniform in hue as Jak had thought when he’d first seen a portion of it. There was an iridescent quality to it, with hints of color wavering and glinting, as if affected by the sun. But with the ash and smoke filling the sky, there was no sun.
The body of the portal also wasn’t uniform. Instead of essentially being a thick ring with smooth sides, the frame was formed by four dragons, each one biting the tail of the one ahead of it so that there were no breaks. It seemed a strange message for something crafted by dragons, but he couldn’t deny its elegance and beauty, and the urge to draw it filled him. Also the urge to touch it. From across the beach, he couldn’t see if there were any runes or etchings on the surface, and he dearly wanted to investigate more closely.
The ground rumbled again, reminding him of their predicament. If Malek was right, they didn’t have much time to get off the island.
“Shall we lower ropes with winches?” One of the younger officers pointed up at the mageship still hovering a hundred feet above the beach.
“No.” Malek held out his hand toward the artifact.
The ground trembled again, and Tonovan swore and backed up, waving for his men to do the same. This time, the tremble wasn’t caused by the volcano but by the portal rising out of the hard ground, quivering as lava rock sloughed away.
Jak couldn’t keep from gaping as it levitated into the air, rock and ash trickling off it. How much had Mother said it weighed? Five hundred pounds? Far less than pure steel would have, but nobody should have been able to lift that with their mind.
Malek’s face was tight with concentration as the portal rose higher and higher, flying straight up toward his ship. Jak glanced at the magelock he’d tossed to the ground. The officers weren’t close. Maybe he could grab the weapon and shoot Malek while he was distracted. And then… and then what? They could never escape the other mages, and they would surely retaliate. Jak might get his mother and the whole team killed.
Malek looked over at him, not as distracted as Jak had believed.
Jak swallowed and looked away, thoughts of trying to be a hero dissipating from his mind. These people were inhuman. It would take more than a magelock to defeat them.
The artifact disappeared over the railing of the mageship. Jak hoped the crew ran up and hugged it and got zapped—unless there were normal humans up there. He wouldn’t wish that on them. Only the mages should hug the damn thing.
With his task complete, Malek lowered his arm. “Watch your thoughts, boy,” he said quietly. “There are those aboard the Star Flyer who would kill you for them.”
Mother turned concerned eyes toward Jak. He bit his lip and shrugged helplessly. How was he supposed to control what his mind did?
With a flick of Malek’s fingers, two of the empty disks floated over, the wafer-thin black ovals appearing far too flimsy to support someone’s weight.
“Get on,” he told Jak and his mother.
Apparently, the questioning that Malek had spoken of would happen later aboard their ship. Fantastic.
“Take some of the other archaeologists,” Tonovan called. “To ensure compliance.” The general smiled cruelly at Mother.
Jak didn’t know whether to hope that Malek would object or not. Was it better for the rest of the team to go with the mages and get off this smoking island? Or be left here and hope the mercenaries would come back to pick them up?
Malek’s gaze skimmed over the team. They all stared at the ground, their shoulders hunched, hoping not to be picked. They would all rather take their chances with the volcano.
“Professor Darv Sadlik,” Malek said, though nobody had introduced him. He spread his hand toward an empty disk. “Step aboard.”
Darv cringed.
“Not him,” Mother blurted, raising a hand, as if she would grip Malek’s arm, but she caught herself, merely holding it up in protest. “He’s too old.”
“There is no maximum age for riding a skyboard,” Malek said, that dryness returning to his tone.
“But he—”
“Means the most to you,” Malek interrupted her. “After your son.”
Mother closed her eyes in defeat.
“Step aboard,” Malek repeated, the magical coercion in his voice again.
Jak couldn’t resist but managed to snatch up his belongings before he stepped onto a disk with his mother. She’d grabbed all of her vials and tools too, though the officers would doubtless take them from her later.
As Darv stepped onto another disk, he smiled at Mother and tried to convey that it was all right. But it wasn’t.
Without any command or even a hand wave from Malek, the disks rose up. Jak gripped his mother to keep her from falling, but there was no need. The disks were as solid as ground and rose levelly, more smoothly than the steam elevators in the tall buildings of Sprungtown.
The officers shared disks, rising up with them. Jak looked for Malek, but he’d disappeared from the beach as effectively as he’d first appeared.
As they rose, Jak caught Tonovan looking down at the mercenaries swimming out of the bay and navigating the harsher waves in the strait. Many were helping those who’d been injured in his attack and were making poor progress. The ferry was heading in their direction, but what if Tonovan, whose lips were curled in that cruel sneer again, impeded their progress? Or worse.
As Jak was groping for a way to distract the jerk, the volcano finally blew. One side of its caldera crumbled inward as the other exploded outward. Huge plumes of black smoke flowed away from it, masking the entire island from view, save for brilliant orange splotches of lava already running down the rocky slopes.
“I hope the mercenaries help the rest of our team get away,” Mother said quietly.
“They will,” Jak said, more to comfort her than because he believed it was true. Nothing good had happened today yet.
Chapter 5
5
The cold water dragged at Tezi Tigan’s sodden clothes and armor, the short sword on her hip feeling like it weighed a hundred pounds, but she clung to the rope ladder that had been lowered from the ferry railing and helped others who were more injured than she. The swim had been horrible, waves of salty seawater smashing into her face and funneling down her throat, and she had no idea how many of their people had made it.
The memory of being in the rowboat when that huge fireball sped toward it lingered in her mind. It would be impossible to forget the white light, the raw heat, and the sheer power as it slammed into the boat, blowing it to pieces and hurling Tezi and the others overboard. Only luck had kept her from being badly hurt. Her skin was raw and pink from the close call, but others had been closer to the fireball when it struck.
With numb fingers, Tezi bent and pulled Dr. Fret closer to the ladder, making sure she gripped one of the rungs. The company couldn’t afford to lose their medical expert.
A garish burn marked the side of Fret’s face, part of her braid was singed off, and her uniform jacket had been torn away in the waves. The captain, lieutenant, and some of the sergeants knew basic field medicine, so hopefully, they would be able to help the doctor recover. Teeth chattering, Fret looked like she would collapse as soon as she reached the deck.
“Thanks, Rookie,” Fret rasped as Tezi helped her climb past her.
“You’re welcome, ma’am.” Tezi was used to the title. She’d only been with the company for three months and was the youngest mercenary by several years. Maybe someday, Captain Ferroki would take on a new person, and the moniker would be transferred to her, but Tezi had a feeling she would be proving herself again and again to her colleagues for a long time. But if that was what it took, she would do it.
Pausing only to cough and spit the constant taste of ash from her mouth, Tezi helped up another mercenary and another until nobody from the company was left in the water, but back in the bay, more people were swimming this way. The archaeologists? Had the mages left them behind? She hoped so. Nobody deserved to be taken prisoner by those inhumane—no, inhuman—people. She had personal experience with their cruelty; that leer the general had given her hadn’t been the first she’d received. People with that much power did what they wanted with no need to worry about repercussions. Usually.
“You going to turn yourself into a barnacle, Rookie?” the captain called down in her calm, even voice.
“What about them?” Tezi glanced up but pointed toward the swimmers, who were navigating out of the bay and into harsher water. “Weren’t we hired to get them?”
“Yeah, we’re steaming over to them now.”
That was a relief. The hull vibrated with the rumble of the engines, but Tezi hadn’t been able to discern the ferry’s route. She was still disoriented from the swim, when the waves had kept her from seeing where she was going. It had been only by following the person in front of her that she’d reached the ferry.
“Did they all get left behind?” Tezi hadn’t seen what happened after the fireball struck. All she knew was that in the time she’d been swimming, the mageship had disappeared. From out here in the strait, she didn’t have a good view of the beach, but she had no trouble seeing plumes of smoke gushing from the volcano and rivers of bright orange lava flowing down its sides.
“Not all of them,” the captain said grimly, looking toward the sky beyond the strait and the islands. The direction the mageship had gone? “We’ll have to explain everything to the magistrate and hope we’ll still get paid.”
So far, Tezi had been issued her rookie salary regularly, but she always heard mutterings from the others about how few contracts were given to the all-female company, especially lately, and how low the company’s coffers were. That didn’t matter much to her—she’d signed on to learn how to fight and take care of herself, not to get rich—but she kept the unpopular thought to herself.
Lieutenant Sasko joined the captain at the railing and looked down. “What’s our rookie doing?”
“Barnacle practice,” the captain said.
“Huh.”
Despite being chilled from the water, Tezi’s cheeks warmed. She knew they were just teasing her—and their razzing was a lot less biting and frequent than that of the other grunts—but she wished they would see that she was being helpful. Nobody thought she belonged here, and as silly as it was, she lay awake nights, dreaming up ways she could prove herself.
The ferry closed on the swimmers, and Tezi helped them climb out of the water. She didn’t see the professor they’d spoken with or the young man who might have been her son. She also didn’t see the old man who’d appeared the frailest of the bunch and hoped it was because he had been captured, not because he’d drowned. Though maybe drowning would be a less painful way to go.
By the time she climbed to the deck, Tezi was exhausted and wanted to flop down, as the archaeologists and a number of the mercenaries had, but she made herself shamble over to the captain and the lieutenant to see if they needed anything from her. They were sitting on crates facing each other. It wasn’t until Tezi drew close that she realized they were looking at something and that it might be a private meeting.
She faltered and stopped a few feet away, but they’d spotted her. The captain’s hand closed around something.
Trying not to feel stung that they might not trust her enough to see whatever it was, Tezi straightened her back and saluted. “Rookie Tezi reporting for duty, ma’am.”
She addressed the captain, but Sasko was the one to snort and say, “Don’t you have a squad leader, Rookie?”
“Yes, ma’am. Sergeant Tinder.” Who happened to be one of the mercenaries who razzed Tezi the most. That made Tezi disinclined to approach her unless absolutely necessary, but she made herself nod. “I’ll go ask her if she needs me to do anything.”
“You do that.” Sasko waved her away.
“Hold on.” The captain lifted a hand. “When you joined the company, didn’t you say that your parents were tailors before they passed?”
“Yes, ma’am.” Tezi hadn’t explained much of her background, and the mercenaries hadn’t asked for much. All they’d wanted to know was about her fighting experience, of which she’d had none, so she’d mentioned her sartorial skills in case the company might find that useful. After all, uniforms ripped and needed to be repaired, especially after being blasted by fireballs. But nobody had seemed impressed by her sewing experience, and to this day, Tezi was sure the captain had only taken her on out of pity. “Do you need something hemmed?”
She looked at everyone’s torn and sodden uniforms, including the captain’s and the lieutenant’s.
Sasko snorted and rolled her eyes. “Everybody is going to need something hemmed after that.”
“Did your family ever do hat making? Or anything with decorative ornaments?” the captain asked, ignoring Sasko.
“There was a haberdasher next door in our village, so I know a little about that business, and we’d sew shells or beads on for people if they had something special they’d found. Nobody in our community had much money for frills, but sometimes, they would find something in the woods or at the lake and think it was pretty.”
“I doubt anyone found this in the woods.” The captain opened her hand and revealed what she’d hidden before, handing it to Tezi.
She accepted what looked like a solid gold medallion, but it wasn’t heavy enough for that. The front featured a dragon’s head with star-shaped holes for eyes, while the edge was marked with unevenly spaced ridges, and the back held a pattern of raised bumps. She ran her thumb over the bumps, wondering how and why they had been embossed onto the medallion.
“Tell nobody about it,” the captain warned Tezi.
“No, ma’am. I won’t.” She wished she had a loupe to better study it. If there was a maker’s mark anywhere on it, she couldn’t see it. A jeweler would have been a better person for them to consult, but Tezi doubted anyone in the company had that experience.
“But let me know if you know what it is,” the captain added.
“You really think it’s something?” Sasko asked. “And not some decorative trinket?”
“The kid had it in his hat like a decoration,” the captain said, “but whatever it is, the professor didn’t want the mages to get it. She took it out and handed it to me on the sly and asked me to keep it until she could come back for it.”
Sasko grunted. “If the mages have a use for those archaeologists, they’ll never be back. They’ll get bands strapped to their heads, and they won’t even remember who they are or how to scratch their own asses. You should get it appraised and sell it if it’s worth anything. Is that real gold?”
She’d asked the captain, but Tezi shook her head. “It’s too light. It’s even lighter than if it were gold-plating over a copper or silver base metal.”
“Those are the usual materials for decorative jewelry?” the captain asked.
“They’re typical. They’re not as expensive, obviously, and make a piece stronger and less likely to bend than pure gold.” Tezi smiled, glad to have some knowledge the captain seemed to find useful.
“Does that thing bend?” the captain asked.
“Don’t bend it if you want to sell it,” Sasko said.
The captain gave her a dry look. “We’re not selling it. I told the professor I owed her a favor, and keeping this for her is what she asked for.”
“Captain. You didn’t owe them anything. It’s not our fault sun-cursed mages showed up.”
“Mind your tone, Lieutenant,” the captain said. She only broke out rank with Sasko when Sasko was getting too lippy.
Sasko sighed. “Yes, Captain.”
“Malek is a zidarr,” Tezi said quietly. “Not a mage. That means he’s as powerful as a wizard, in addition to being a well-trained warrior.” She remembered the fireball blast again and shivered. “I’m sure that general was a wizard too.”
“You know about their kind?” the captain asked softly, her tone almost gentle.
Even if Tezi hadn’t gone into detail, the captain must have guessed something about her past, if only because she’d admitted her parents were both dead. The gentleness—the pity—made Tezi’s emotions bubble to the surface. It hadn’t been long since her world had been destroyed. It was easier to keep her feelings in check with Sasko and Sergeant Tinder, people who barked orders and didn’t ask her questions about herself. Even if Tezi liked the captain more, she worried about breaking down and crying in front of her. Mercenaries didn’t cry.
“Just what you learn from having a village within spitting distance of one of their sky cities,” Tezi said, feigning casualness and forcing down the lump in her throat as painful memories sprang to mind. “The seekers would come by every year, looking for people to enslave and take up to their city. You can’t run a good sky city without terrene human servants doing the grunt work.” Tezi didn’t bother to keep the bitterness out of her voice. Long before she’d lost her parents, she’d had her older brother taken by the seekers. Was he still alive up in King Darekar’s city? Or a sky city from another kingdom? Tezi had no way to know. “Sometimes, they would send a zidarr along with the seekers, someone close to the king who knew his tastes.”
The captain’s and lieutenant’s lips twisted. They knew what she meant. Maybe they wondered why she hadn’t been taken during one of those visits. After losing their firstborn, her parents had gone to great lengths to hide her during the annual selection visits. And it had worked until… the day it hadn’t.
“A zidarr came once when I was a girl and flicked a finger and blew up half of Main Street,” Tezi said. “Killed five people, and he enjoyed it. They aren’t human. None of them are. If they want this—” she held up the ornament, “—it would be best to give it to them or get rid of it before they come looking for it.”
“Or sell it,” Sasko said. “Get some money for it and make it someone else’s problem.”
“Gold-plated jewelry isn’t worth much. If that’s all it is.” Not sounding like she believed that, the captain took it back and scraped at the gold plating with a thumbnail. “Besides, I agreed to keep it safe.”
“That shouldn’t be your job, Captain. You’re a fighter, not a vault guard. Why don’t you just give it to them?” Sasko tilted her head toward the exhausted archaeologists, most slumped on the deck, a couple looking back toward the blazing volcano as the ferry steamed away. “They’re from the same team as that professor, right? If by some miracle she gets away, she’ll go home to them, and they can give it to her.”
“The mages—wizards—” the captain nodded toward Tezi to acknowledge the correction, “—would think to question those archaeologists if they find out the professor gave away this medallion. Maybe she didn’t want her colleagues to be tortured for information.” Judging by her frown as she looked at the soggy archaeologists, not a warrior among them, she didn’t think they should be subjected to that.
“They’ll do that anyway,” Sasko muttered. “I don’t know what that big metal ring was, but Malek’s people crossed into another king’s territory to get it, and I’m wagering they didn’t have permission. That means it’s valuable and they wanted it badly. And probably everything to do with it. Like that.” Sasko pointed at the medallion. “Those archaeologists would be better off moving to a different continent, changing their names, and hoping nobody ever comes to question them.”
“I don’t disagree with any of that, but the professor must have given it to me because she wanted someone capable to look after it.”
“She gave it to you because you were standing next to her,” Sasko said.
“Capably.”
“Right.”
The captain drew her knife. She hadn’t succeeded at scraping away any of the gold with her fingernail, but she applied her blade to one of the ridges on the edge.
Tezi shifted uneasily from foot to foot. “That could be magical, ma’am.”
“Does that mean it’ll zap me if I scratch it?”
“It could.” Tezi didn’t say more. She’d seen magic used on other people—and now had it flung at her—but she couldn’t call herself an expert in that area.
“Hm.” The captain put away her knife and held the edge of the medallion up for Sasko to see.
“Shit,” the lieutenant said.
When the captain showed Tezi what her blade had revealed, it took her a moment to grasp the significance. She’d only seen a portion of the artifact the archaeologists had been digging up and from afar, but its blue-black sheen had been distinctive. The scratch in the gold plating showed that the base material of the medallion was the same color.
“You better get rid of that thing as soon as possible, Captain,” Sasko whispered, glancing toward the sky, as if the crew of the long-gone mageship—as if Malek—might somehow hear her. “And hope they never find out it’s missing.”
“What do you think it is?” the captain mused.
“A key?” Tezi guessed, thinking of the oddly placed bumps and ridges. “To that… whatever they were digging up?”
“Maybe so.” The captain also glanced toward the sky. “I made it to the ferry in time to see them lifting it up to their mageship. It was a giant ring.”
“With a keyhole?” Tezi asked.
“My vision isn’t that good,” the captain said.
“If it is a key, and that thing has a keyhole, they’re going to figure out real quick that this is missing.” Sasko pointed at the medallion. “Captain, I know you’re in charge, and what you say goes, but please promise me you’ll get rid of it. There’s no need to keep your promise to a dead woman, and that’s what she’ll be if she isn’t already. You’ve got to think of the company. The sixty of us don’t want to die because some cranky wizard comes looking for that while hurling about gouts of fire.” Sasko grimaced and rubbed her arm.
Tezi touched a gash at her own temple, the memory of the fireball returning. In that instant, she’d believed she would die. Now, she found herself nodding in agreement with the lieutenant. The captain barely knew that professor. A favor for a stranger wasn’t worth dying for.
The captain sighed. “You’re not wrong. I know that. But I feel compelled to do right by that professor, since we were supposed to retrieve her, and we couldn’t.” She gazed toward Perchver, the big trade city sprawling along the shoreline on the opposite side of the strait from the volcano. “I know someone in town who has… retired from the mercenary business and now hunts down relics for those who can pay. After we see the magistrate, I want to visit him.”
“And after you have a nice chat with him, you’ll chuck that thing into the sea?” Sasko asked hopefully.
“We’ll see.” The captain carefully buttoned the medallion into her pocket and headed belowdecks.
“I have a bad feeling about this,” Sasko muttered.
Chapter 6
6
Though the hull and the entire exterior of the mageship were black, there was red trim on the deck and even more color when their captors forced Jadora, Jak, and Darv down steps and into the surprisingly open and bright interior. Rather than narrow corridors crammed with cabins and machine rooms, spacious holds flowed from one into another with few walls or floors. Railing-free staircases linked platforms that floated in the air, allowing access to the magical infrastructure that replaced what would have been engines, pipes, and a boiler on a mundane steamship. Uniformed men and women stood on some of the platforms, accessing interfaces full of glowing domes, spheres, and panels, everything curved rather than angular.
Everything was so alien that Jadora would have believed they’d been transported to another world. The only normal things she spotted were wooden crates filled with food and supplies. They sat on the bottom of the hold, no straps visible that would have kept them from shifting around. Maybe that wasn’t necessary. Jadora had yet to notice the movement of the ship, though she knew they’d flown away from the volcano.
A warm yellow light provided illumination to every corner of the holds, though there was no obvious source. As far as she could tell, it emanated from the walls. She had the urge to scratch one with a fingernail to see if some interesting biological or chemical substance had been applied. The thought of bioluminescent paint made from a natural source teased her imagination as she envisioned dozens of applications, but she highly doubted there was anything natural about this ship. Magic didn’t interest her nearly as much as biology and chemistry.
Jak gaped around as they descended stairs and walked across platforms. He bumped into Jadora more than once as he took everything in, almost tipping off the side when he paused to peer down at a huge yellow orb in a strange nest on the floor. It made her think of an octopus with thick glowing tendrils stretching from it like tentacles and snaking along and disappearing into the walls. Maybe the octopus body was the mage equivalent of an engine.
“I wish I could draw this place,” Jak breathed.
For him, that meant making a map.
Malek, who was leading their trio, with two uniformed mages walking behind them, glanced back, but he said nothing. He seemed to notice everything, and Jadora worried he was reading Jak’s thoughts—and that those thoughts weren’t properly reverent. She couldn’t blame him for that, but they had to be careful. With the mages so close, she wasn’t permitting herself to think about anything related to the artifact—and certainly nothing irreverent.
Jadora also tried not to mull over plans for escaping, if doing so was even possible. The mageship was flying hundreds if not thousands of feet above the ocean. Even if they could slip away from their guards, a jump from such height, even into water, would be certain death.
If they somehow did get the opportunity to escape, how could they leave without the artifact? Her goal—her late husband’s goal—had always been to recover it for their people, so they could use the portal to find allies who could help mundane humans free themselves from the shackles placed on them by their mage and wizard rulers. Maybe they could even find the powerful dragons who’d made the portal all those millennia ago.
Malek stopped in a wide green-walled corridor they’d entered and looked back at Jadora. She shoved her thoughts out of her mind and chastised herself for having them when he was so close.
“You’d be wise to forget those notions,” Malek said softly, meeting her eyes, his face unreadable.
Jadora’s heart hammered so hard she heard it in her ears.
Jak came up to her shoulder, as if he would step in front of her and protect her if Malek lashed out. She held out her arm to keep him from trying. The last thing she wanted was for a mage’s annoyance with her to shift toward her son. It would be best if these people forgot about him or dismissed him as nobody to worry about. Just as she hoped they would dismiss Darv and let him go. That they’d brought him along to force her into good behavior hadn’t escaped her, and she struggled not to think resentful thoughts—resentful thoughts that Malek would sense.
This close, with Malek less than two feet away from her in the corridor, she could feel his power, feel that he was not fully human, not like her.
Were the stories true? That wizards, through some occult ritual with the slavemasters in Hell, funneled magic into the children they turned into zidarr? Warping them and stealing their humanity even as they bound them to be loyal servants? Or were they simply boys with potential trained and indoctrinated from youth? Either way, the zidarr were remorseless killers, so she had to be careful.
But he wasn’t only that, she reminded herself. She dared not think of Malek as only a weapon. He’d read Witiker and who knew what other authors of academic texts. He wasn’t dumb. He was far more calculating and dangerous than the general who’d shown off his power.
If Malek was reading these thoughts, he didn’t comment on them. He stepped back and used his power to flick a lever on the wall.
A clank came from the floor, startling Jadora. A grate she’d barely noticed before slid aside. It was one of several in this corridor, a spot tucked away in the back of the ship and not lit as brightly as the holds they’d passed through. The cell below the open grate was even darker with shadows hiding its depth.
Power wrapped around Jadora, making her gasp. The memory of the general forcing her to her knees was fresh in her mind. The power lifted her off the deck and pushed her over the open grate. What if the bottom was thirty feet down and she broke her legs falling?
“Mother,” Jak blurted, grabbing her.
But the power lifted him as well, pushing him over the opening right behind her.
Fear rushed through Jadora’s limbs, though she struggled to keep it off her face, not wanting to give Malek the satisfaction of seeing it. Why she bothered, she didn’t know. If he could read her mind, he knew she was scared.
He didn’t smirk or sneer the way Tonovan had at seeing pain, but that didn’t mean he didn’t thrive on the emotions of his enemies. Especially after reading her thoughts and knowing what she wanted.
Without so much as a twitch of his fingers, he lowered Jadora and Jak into the cell. He didn’t drop them, as she’d imagined, merely using his power to levitate them to the bottom. A bottom that was twenty feet down with vertical walls creating a tall box. A box that nobody could climb out from.
As their feet thumped down, the grate slid back into place, a lock thunking. Darv leaned over, peering down at them, his worried and haggard face still in the light.
“What about Darv?” Jadora called up, not wanting to be separated.
“He will have his own cell, so you cannot conspire,” Malek stated, his voice muted by the distance and narrowness of the cell. “And so his fate is not a certainty to you.”
Darv gasped as he was hefted into the air. He floated past their grate and who knew where after that. To a cell at the end of the corridor? Or in another part of the ship?
“What does that mean?” she muttered, though a dozen guesses came to mind.
“That they can kill him tonight and we won’t know it,” Jak said. “But that we’ll still jump to obey them, because we believe we can gain his freedom.”
“You’ve grown cynical, my son.” Jadora sighed and leaned her shoulder against the smooth featureless wall.
“This day has made me cynical.”
No, five years earlier, his father’s death had done that. It had taken a couple of years for him to regain his curiosity and interest in the world, to find joy in his studies and hobbies again. But he’d never lost that edge, his tendency toward sarcasm that hadn’t been there before.
She couldn’t blame him for that. Loran’s death had made her cynical too.
“I think it’s night now,” was all she said, aware that the mages were still up there.
“And they didn’t drop down pillows? Inconsiderate.”
“I will summon you if I have questions about the journal, Professor,” Malek called, his voice distant.
That probably meant he’d put Darv in a cell at the end of the same corridor, but he was far enough away that they couldn’t communicate without shouting to each other. Even that might not work.
“Won’t that be a fun chat?” Jak muttered.
Red-uniformed legs and polished boots came into view, standing on their grate. One of the soldiers—one who’d used magic to help unearth the portal and was a mage in his own right—peered down at them, annoyance on his face. Either for Jak’s comment or because he was stuck on a pedestrian duty.
Jadora sank down with her back to the wall, some of her vials poking her through her clothes. She was surprised Malek hadn’t taken them, but she didn’t have anything that would assist them in escaping. Maybe he knew that. All he’d cared about was Loran’s journal. Now that he had it, he could take it off to whatever lair he had on this ship and peruse it at his leisure. He would read all the notes Loran had made and know all about him through his work, and he would read the notes she’d later made in the margins and on blank pages she’d stuck in, and learn all about her as well.
If he cared. Likely not. What he wanted, she had no doubt, was to learn how to operate the portal for his master.
Jak sat beside her, his rangy form barely visible in the shadows. He pulled his knees to his chest and wrapped his arms around them, as he might have as a boy, and let his forehead thud down.
Jadora draped her arm around his shoulders, glad he didn’t pull away—it had been several years since he’d allowed comforting from his mother, but these were extenuating circumstances. At least Malek hadn’t separated them. Why hadn’t he? Because he didn’t think Jak was someone she might conspire with? That wasn’t true, but it was just as well if he believed that.
“Is it safe to think now?” Jak whispered. “To speak?”
“I don’t know.” Jadora looked up at the boots. The soldier didn’t react. “We probably won’t be safe for as long as we’re on this ship.” Or ever again, she thought but did not want to say. Such words weren’t comforting.
“They’ll keep us alive, right? Because we know about the portal and they may need our knowledge?”
“Probably until they figure out how to work it, yes.”
“And then?”
She squeezed his shoulders. “I don’t know, but that should take some time.” Time in which they could figure out a way to escape, she hoped. “Like you, I’ve memorized Loran’s notes, but he never got a chance to study the actual artifact. And we haven’t either, so it’s all hypotheses at this point. I wish I’d gotten a chance to see if there were any symbols—and hints of a language—on the surface. Translating them would be a chore, and maybe not possible at all, but it would be amazing simply to find out that dragons had the equivalent of a written language. Everything we know about them comes from the fossil records and oral stories passed down over tens of thousands of years.”
“I know.” Jak lifted his gaze toward the grate and lowered his voice so that she could barely hear it. “Do you think he’s the one who killed Father?”
Jadora glanced at their guard, then realized he meant Malek. “There were… speculations about that, among the professors and staff, since it happened on campus at his office, but nobody saw any strangers go in or out. We only know the mages were responsible because they came to our house.”
“And ransacked and searched everything. I remember. But people said it was probably a zidarr because of exactly what you said, that whoever did it got in and out without being seen.”
Yes, she’d heard those suggestions, and she didn’t reject that it was possible, but she didn’t want to fuel any notions Jak might be brewing about attacking Malek. He was hot-headed enough and of the right age to do something foolish and impulsive like giving his own life to try to avenge his father’s death. The thought of losing him too made her throat tighten so much that she couldn’t speak for a moment. The worst part was that she knew it would be in vain. A human boy with a pocket full of pencils wasn’t going to take down a zidarr.
“It was nighttime, and few people were on campus working,” Jadora said when she recovered her voice. “I don’t deny that it could have been a zidarr, and obviously our city is in Uthari’s kingdom, so it could have been Malek, but it also could have been any mage with a sword or any cutthroat hired off the streets.”
“It was someone with a sword. You told me they decapitated him. That they delivered his… severed head to you in a bag.” Jak swallowed and looked at her, though the shadows hid the haunted expression that had to be on his face.
And hers as well. As if it had happened yesterday, she remembered the freshly decapitated head of her beloved husband thudding to the floor like wet meat, leaving blood everywhere. It took her a moment before she could reply.
“I did.” She’d been frantic to clean up the mess before Jak came out of his room, before he could see it. Strangely, in those first moments, she’d been more panicked about that than about the fact that her husband was dead. The reality of that had settled in that night—and forever after.
“It was one of Uthari’s soldiers who brought you his head, right?” Jak sounded like he was trying to remember exactly what had happened that night. Since he hadn’t witnessed it all—thank the dragon god Shylezar—it was more of a blur for him.
“Yes. They had swords. It could have been one of them.”
“But it could have been Malek,” he said with mulish determination.
“Yes, but please, Jak. Let’s just figure out how to stay alive and get out of this situation. No suicidal heroics, all right?” She squeezed his shoulders again, though she wanted to shake him until he agreed wholeheartedly.
“You recognized that officer,” he said, as if he’d just remembered. “The general. I thought he was Malek at first, but I saw your face. You’d seen him before.”
Jadora leaned her head back against the wall. What boy—or man—paid so much attention to people to notice such details? The gods had gifted and cursed her with an artist with a keen and observant eye.
“Yes,” she admitted reluctantly, not wanting Jak to have revenge fantasies about General Tonovan any more than about Malek. She sensed that Malek was the more dangerous of the two, but either of them could obliterate Jak with a thought.
“Where?”
She hesitated. She didn’t make a habit of lying to Jak and didn’t want to start, but maybe she could refuse to answer…
“Mages don’t come to the university campus often,” Jak said slowly, the gears rotating in his mind. “Was it the night of Father’s death?” He stiffened. “Was he one of the ones who came to the house?”
“He was.” The words trickled out of her with defeat. “Since Uthari first learned about the portal, it must have become a priority for him, so he put his top men on it.” She realized that was another reason to believe Malek might have been the one to kill Loran and search his office while the other soldiers were sent to search the house. “I don’t know how many of those wizard kings know about the artifact—maybe we’re lucky and it’s just him—but they’ll all want it when they find out. Even if they don’t care about getting it operational, it would be a trophy, bragging rights.”
If only that was all they wanted it for. Jadora worried she’d just put a powerful weapon—or the means to get powerful weapons—into the hands of the enemies of humanity.
“Maybe they’ll fight over it.”
“Some believe,” Jadora said, glad to divert his attention in another direction, not wanting him to figure out that Tonovan had been the man to open the bag and dump Loran’s head on the floor, “that having the wizard kings at war would be good for the rest of us, since it could distract them for years, if not decades and generations, but they would use us as pawns, just as they do now. Throw us away as cannon fodder. A wizard war would ravage the world and make it an even harder place for us to survive.”
“Then what do we do?” Jak asked in a small voice.
Find a way to dump that portal in the ocean, she thought but didn’t say. Even that wouldn’t be enough. After witnessing Malek wave his hand and lift the big artifact hundreds of feet in the air, she had no doubt he had the power to retrieve it from even the deepest chasm on the bottom of the sea.
“I don’t know yet,” she said, “but I’ll let you know when I have a plan.”
He snorted. “Hiding behind a boulder and ordering all of the mages to jump into the ocean probably won’t work.”
“You don’t think so?”
After a pause, he spoke again, his voice even quieter. “Mother?”
“Yes?”
“I’m sorry I got you into this.”
“You didn’t lead a mageship to our dig site.” If anything, she was the one who’d made a mistake. Somewhere along the line, she’d left a trail that Uthari’s people could follow. She’d been careful in arranging her expedition, never talking to anyone who might be on the payroll of the king’s intelligence people, but it hadn’t been good enough.
“I’m the reason for all this though. If I hadn’t… It’s my fault. You never would have left your career if I hadn’t threatened to quit school and take up Father’s quest myself.”
She blew out a long, slow breath, remembering that day at Loran’s funeral. And remembering Jak’s rage and frustration and ultimatum. She hadn’t blamed him, neither then nor now. He’d been so close to Loran, always dreaming of one day accompanying him around the world, making maps that would help them bring ancient relics back to the university for study. His determination to carry on Loran’s work had been understandable. But he was right that, as much as she’d loved her husband, she wouldn’t have given up her career to obsessively try to complete his quest. She’d been doing important work, studying herbs and creating compounds that could cure illnesses and help people with all manner of ailments, and she’d loved it. She’d been respected, her papers praised by her peers, and now… Now she was a pariah at her own university. Her colleagues shook their heads when they saw her in the halls, wondering why she’d given up everything for this frivolous quest.
Because if she hadn’t, thirteen-year-old Jak would have run away from home to take it up himself.
“It’s not your fault,” she said, wanting to comfort and protect him, even if there was some truth to his words. “I did it because I wanted to do it.” So much for not lying.
Jak fell silent, and she had a feeling he didn’t believe her. She didn’t know what else she could say that wouldn’t be a lie. Now more than ever, she missed her old life and questioned whether she’d made the right decision. If all they’d done was find and unearth the portal to hand it over to the wizards…
Glum, Jadora tried to shift her mind to more useful thoughts. Like planning an escape.
She ran her fingers over the floor and wall, wondering what they were made from. The surfaces had a satiny smoothness that made her positive magic had been involved in the creation. Would that make them impervious to acid? Mundane explosives? Anything she could concoct if she could somehow finagle access to chemicals and a lab? Hoping to find either on a mageship was probably pointless, but if she got a chance to search those supply crates, she would.
“How are you doing, Darv?” she called in ancient Zeruvian, Jak’s silence making her uncomfortable.
Her mastery of the language wasn’t much better than her mastery of the drakur tongue, but Darv taught it in his first-year linguistics and philology course, so she trusted he could work out her execrable pronunciation. If he heard her. Was he too far away? The deep cells muffled sound.
“My oubliette is without a latrine,” came Darv’s distant response in the same language.
She smiled, more because he’d been able to reply than because of the subject matter. “Does that mean you’re doing poorly?”
“You know I have a sensitive system.”
She doubted he was airsick—the flight was so smooth they might have been resting on solid ground—but there were numerous reasons to feel queasy today. “That’s unfortunate. Are you otherwise uninjured?”
“I’m as hale now as I was this morning.”
“That’s discouraging.”
“Thus I tell myself every day.”
Their mage guard stomped his boot. “No conspiring in foreign tongues,” he growled down.
“Can we conspire in Dhoran? Or Wizards’ Common?” Jak, who probably hadn’t taken Darv’s first-year class, asked.
“No.”
“We were just discussing the lack of toilets,” Jadora said, switching back to Dhoran. “Have mages evolved to such an extent that they no longer have biological needs?”
“It folds out of the wall across from you, woman.”
“Delightful to know. Thank you.”
A distant clank came from the corridor, or perhaps Darv’s cell. “My day has improved at least three percent with this knowledge,” he called in Dhoran.
The soldier issued a long-suffering sigh. Guarding terrene humans had to be tedious.
Jak dropped his forehead against his knees again, and his shoulders shook.
“Are you crying or laughing?” Jadora whispered.
“It’s a laugh, sort of. I was imagining you discussing toilets with Malek or that horrible general.”
“Presumably they have biological needs too.”
He shook his head. Jadora patted his shoulder and went back to contemplating the composition of the walls—and that grate up there, should they come up with a way to reach it—and chemicals that one might find and put to use on a mageship.
Chapter 7
7
“Six… seven… eight… Rookie, you’re not tired already, are you?”
Tezi, arms quivering, face flushing redder by the second, made herself bark out, “No, Sergeant!” with as much energy as she could muster.
“Haven’t you worked those scrawny sticks for arms up to being able to do ten push-ups yet?”
“Yes, Sergeant!”
After more than an hour of training on the deck of the ferry now anchored in Perchver Harbor, Tezi was tired, her rubbery muscles unwilling to push up her body weight over and over, but she couldn’t admit it. Sergeant Tinder, crouching low to the deck, her lips close enough to funnel accusations in Tezi’s ears, would only embarrass her in front of the rest of the unit if she said anything. When she’d joined the company, she’d barely been able to do one push-up, so she’d made a lot of progress, but the others were still much stronger—and they never let her forget it.
“The wind could carry that volcano stink back in this direction any minute,” Tinder said, prowling among the sixty other women—sixty other mercenaries in the company—balanced on their hands and toes, holding stiff plank positions. A stocky woman with arms larger than Tezi’s thighs, Tinder probably never got tired. “We have to train while we can. Assuming you dung-sucking bags of fluff don’t collapse on me. Let’s go, ten more. You let your boobs hit the ground, and I’ll lop ’em off.”
Tinder was in rare form this morning, probably because the captain and lieutenant were out on deck, jogging the perimeter as they discussed whatever officers discussed. The mostly male crew of the government-owned ferry watched in amusement as the women trained. At least they weren’t making lewd comments anymore. On the trip to the island, one crewman had joked about how women should rub their swords instead of pretending they knew what to do with metal ones. Lieutenant Sasko, with a temper more explosive than black powder, had flattened him and put her boot on his throat. Since then, further speculation, at least within her earshot, had been scarce.
On push-up number fourteen, Tezi’s arms refused to lower her body again. She locked her elbows, hoping she could keep herself from collapsing. Sweat dribbled off her chin and splatted on the gritty metal deck. To either side, the other women kept going, arms pumping like pistons.
One day, she would be able to—
Her arms gave out, and she flopped down. Damn it.
“The rookie thinks we should take a break,” Sergeant Tinder said. “The sun is barely up, but she already wants nap time. Do any of you other maggots want naps?”
“No, Sergeant,” came the chorus of replies.
Tezi tried to get back into a push-up position, but her arms wouldn’t take it. She knelt back and shook out her muscles, willing them to grow stronger, refusing to believe that she couldn’t handle this life.
The captain glanced in her direction, and Tezi’s cheeks flushed hotter. Since the captain had taken a chance on her, when Lieutenant Sasko had argued vociferously that they weren’t a recruit training center, Tezi wanted to show her that she hadn’t made a mistake.
If there was condemnation in the captain’s gaze, Tezi couldn’t tell. She only looked over for a moment before turning her eyes back toward the volcano and up toward the sky. Fortunately, there weren’t any mageships in sight.
“Corporal Stacks, you’re not getting tired, are you?” Tinder had found someone else to harass. Good.
“It’s hard work actually doing the exercises, Sergeant,” came the gruff reply.
“You think I don’t train? You think I wasn’t out here before dawn with the LT while you cockroaches were snoring in your racks?” Tinder dropped and knocked out twenty push-ups in about ten seconds, then hopped to her feet again. “Rest if you have to. Once we’re done with our warm-up, we’ll start sparring.”
A few sighs and groans came from the others, but Tezi was glad. The sword-fighting and especially the unarmed combat were what she wanted to master. Then nobody would be able to take advantage of her again—or anyone she cared about.
“Why do you bother, Rookie?” Corporal Jinx, the mercenary at her side, asked.
She was the only other fair-skinned blonde woman in the unit, but their similarities ended at skin and hair color. Jinx had the build of an ox, a scar across her chin from a sword fight, and her hair was cut aggressively short and stuck out in all directions. Everything about her was aggressive.
“Being a soldier isn’t for someone who can’t pull her own weight,” Jinx added. “Why would you even want to do this? You’re pretty. You could work in a brothel or bar, make money a lot easier on your back.”
“Such an appealing option,” Tezi muttered.
“Or go flirt with some useless rich mage, and be his mistress. Get paid to walk around on his arm and thrust your boobs out.”
“I want to be a soldier.” At least for now. Once she learned how to take care of herself, maybe she would try something else—something less dangerous—but she didn’t know what. The idea of going back to the family business when her family was gone… It made her throat tighten with emotions. She blinked and looked at the sky, refusing to let tears form when others were around.
“You’re not cut out for it. Nobody could depend on you to have her back.”
A few other women were listening while pretending not to be listening, and they nodded to themselves. The lack of faith stung Tezi, even though they’d been hazing her since the beginning, and she expected it.
“I’m getting better,” she said. “Just give me time.”
“Time will get you in trouble. You’re going to be a target any time we’re out in the field against enemies that like to take advantage of the weakest link. They’ll pick out your scrawny stick body from miles away. And if you get that face all cut up, you won’t have the option to do anything else.” Jinx shook her head. “You don’t belong here.”
Tinder ordered everyone to grab their sparring gear, and Jinx pushed herself to her feet.
“I will,” Tezi muttered, standing up.
“Over here, Rookie,” Lieutenant Sasko called.
She and the captain had ended their jog and gathered up the archaeologists. Tezi’s legs weren’t as rubbery as her arms, so she managed to run over and salute.
“Grab your gear,” the captain said. “We’re going into town, and I want your expertise.”
“Yes, ma’am.” Normally, Tezi wouldn’t want to miss weapons practice, but if she could prove useful, she wanted the chance to do so.
“Expertise?” One of the archaeologists raised her eyebrows and looked at Tezi, as if it might turn out that she was an academic with numerous degrees.
“On sewing,” Sasko said dryly.
“Oh.” The archaeologist’s interest faded, and she looked to her comrades. Dr. Fret was walking among them, checking wounds that she had treated the day before. Her own wounds had been patched up, a bandage on her cheek smeared with a pungent burn cream. Half of the company smelled of the stuff this morning.
“Actually on gold plating,” the captain said. “Go, Rookie. You’ve got three minutes.”
Tezi ran belowdecks to change into her uniform and shove all of her belongings into her pack in case the unit left the ferry while they were out. It was a temporary spot for the largely nomadic Thorn Company, and now that they’d completed their task, they would be back on the road soon. From what Tezi had heard, the company leased a small stronghold north of Amuri, but they hadn’t been there in the months she’d belonged to the unit.
As she jogged back up the steps and through the hatchway, someone stepped into her path. Corporal Jinx.
Tezi couldn’t dart aside in time and collided with her shoulder. It was like bumping into a brick wall.
“Sorry, Corporal,” she blurted and tried to go around.
But Jinx gripped her arm, halting her. “Sucking up to the captain won’t get you anywhere, Rookie.”
“I’m not sucking up.”
“You’re not going to get any favoritism from her. She sees right through suck-ups.”
Worried the captain would leave without her, Tezi tried to jerk her arm free.
But Jinx was as strong as a bear and only tightened her grip. “Go find some other work in town. We need people we can count on here.”
“Is there going to be a fight?” a soot-faced crewman carrying a shovel asked. “Because I’d pay to see that. Girl fight. Will you take your clothes off for it?”
“Go sit on that shovel, you perv,” Jinx growled at him, letting Tezi go.
Tezi wanted to scurry off—the captain and lieutenant were at the gangplank, frowning back at her as the archaeologists walked off ahead of them—but she made herself stay and see if Jinx would need help with the man. She was dependable and people could count on her.
But the crewman focused on Tezi, not Jinx, giving her a speculative once over. “You want to help me, girl? I’ll let you hold my… shovel.”
“Wouldn’t that be an honor for her?” Jinx asked. “Go back to the boiler room, scum.”
“Nobody’s talking to you, you ugly cow.” He sneered at her. “Go back to pretending to be a soldier. Me and the cute one are going belowdecks.”
Jinx’s eyes blazed as she curled her fingers into a fist.
The crewman’s eyes narrowed, and his grip tightened on his shovel. “Just try something,” he whispered harshly to her. “The captain said to leave paying customers alone, but if you attack me…”
“We’re not looking to fight the people giving us a ride.” Tezi smiled at the man, though she was tempted to let Jinx have at him. “We have places to go, battles to fight. The captain is waiting for us.” Tezi pulled Jinx away, half-surprised when Jinx allowed it and walked with her. She kept glaring over her shoulder at the man, who was eyeing them—no, eyeing Tezi—with speculation as they left. “I’m glad we’re leaving soon,” she muttered.
Jinx grunted. “It doesn’t matter. They’re always like that, the world over. They think every woman who’s not some man’s wife is a whore. You might as well get paid for it.”
Jinx veered off as they reached the gangplank. Tezi shook her head, wondering why she couldn’t get it into the other woman’s mind that she didn’t want to spend her life as a bed slave to strangers.
“Problem?” the captain asked when Tezi joined her.
The lieutenant had already walked down the gangplank with the archaeologists.
Tezi shook her head. “Just trying to keep the peace. I suppose that’s a weird job for a mercenary, but…”
“The Parable of the Fleet-footed Rabbit reminds us that it’s only worth venturing into the thicket of foxes when juicy berries await.”
“So, only fight when we’re getting paid?”
“Correct. Anything else is a chance to get hurt for no gain.”
“Does Jinx know that?”
“She knows. Sometimes, it’s hard to get the body to do what the mind knows it should.”
“Like push-ups?”
The captain snorted. “Like push-ups. Come. We’re going to drop off our charges at the local university, then see the magistrate about getting paid.”
“Will the volcano erupting affect things?” Even though the city was across the water and miles away, Tezi couldn’t imagine anyone sitting in an office today, calmly holding audiences and doling out funds, not with those ominous black plumes filling the horizon.
“Not the volcano, but the mageship showing up and taking some of the archaeologists we were sent to collect may be problematic.” Jaw set and face grim, the captain strode off the ship.
As Tezi followed, she wondered what would happen if the magistrate didn’t pay.
Chapter 8
8
Jak slept fitfully, curled on his side on the hard floor next to his mother. He didn’t think she’d slept at all. The ship was eerily quiet, no hum of an engine suggesting forward momentum, no whistle of the wind penetrating the hull. The strange metal the Star Flyer was made from was like nothing he’d encountered before.
It vibrated with magical energy that pulsed through his body, and an alien feeling came over him when he rested his bare skin against it. The odd mixture of longing and contentment bewildered him. Contentment was the last thing he should feel right now.
“What do you think the ship is made from?” he asked quietly when he was certain his mother was awake.
“I was wondering that earlier,” she said, “and if it’s susceptible to acids.”
“You think there’s a laboratory here they’ll let you use to make something to break us out of our cell?”
She snorted softly. “No.”
“Or—” he lowered his voice to a whisper, “—do you have something in one of those canisters that could corrode metal?”
Jak hadn’t been shocked that Malek hadn’t bothered to take his drawing materials, but he was surprised nobody had confiscated Mother’s mysterious powders and herbs, or at least asked what they were. When it came to plants, she had an encyclopedic memory and knew hundreds of substances capable of poisoning or killing—not that she would ever use her knowledge that way. Her proclivities ran toward stink bombs, something that had amused him vastly as a boy, especially when she’d taught him to make something he’d ended up using on a neighbor kid who’d been picking on him.
“I’m afraid not,” she whispered back. “We may be stuck waiting until we get to their sky castle to try to escape.”
“I’ve heard that’s not easy to do.”
“Not if they band you, no, but they should have numerous mageships in their harbor. They transport up all manner of food and goods for their citizens—and what comes up must go back down.”
“Do you know how long it will take us to get there?” It had taken more than a week’s travel on the steamship that had carried them from his hometown of Sprungtown on the continent of Agorval to the Dragon Perch Islands, but he’d heard mageships could travel four or five times faster than sailing vessels.
“I’m sure we’ll arrive by tomorrow. King Uthari’s sky city isn’t much farther than Sprungtown.”
Jak’s mind boggled at traveling from continent to continent so quickly. He didn’t know whether to be glad they would arrive soon or not. This cell wasn’t appealing, but they hadn’t been tortured for what they knew yet. That fate might be waiting for them in the sky city.
Sighing, he slid his hand over the floor. A warm tingle flowed up his arm.
“It can’t be metal,” he said, going back to their earlier conversation. “I can feel… I guess I feel magic in it. Like that sensation you get when you hold a magelock or some other tool made by mages, but this is much stronger.”
“You feel magic?” Mother asked neutrally.
“Yeah. Magical things.” The question puzzled him. “Don’t you?”
“Not generally. I can recognize them since they’re usually familiar and distinctive, but a magelock doesn’t feel different from a black-powder rifle to me. In the dark, I wouldn’t be able to tell them apart.”
“Really? It’s always been like that for you?” Jak wondered if his mother lacked some sixth sense that most people had. He knew she didn’t have his knack for navigation and finding his way back to camp after exploring in the woods.
“Yes.” Her voice had that careful neutral note again. “I did feel something when I touched the artifact.”
“Oh, no kidding. I could feel it buzzing with power before we even started excavating it.”
“Did you? I’d wondered when you stopped right on what became our dig site.”
Jak bit his lip and sat up. “Are you saying you didn’t feel it until you touched it?”
“Yes.”
“But the others felt it, right? The rest of the team?”
“I doubt it, Jak.”
“Does that… mean something?” He tried to remember if he’d ever had a conversation like this with his mother before. It hadn’t always been like this for him. When he’d been a boy, his father had given him a magical marching-soldier toy that never needed to be wound up, and Jak hadn’t sensed anything special about it. Now that he thought about it, it hadn’t been until these last few years—specifically, after his father’s death—that he’d started being able to feel the magic in things. Strange.
“Maybe, but let’s not worry about it right now. We need to—”
A clang came from above, followed by a faint rattle as the grate slid aside. Two red-uniformed soldiers came into view, their faces indifferent as they gazed down. Neither was the guard who’d been there earlier telling them about the toilet.
“The woman is to be questioned,” one said, lifting a hand, fingers spread.
Mother gasped in surprise as power wrapped around her and lifted her from the ground. Jak jumped to his feet, afraid that Malek or one of the others would hurt her—torture her.
“Take me too,” he blurted.
“The boy is not needed.”
“I know lots of things, things my mother doesn’t know.” Never mind that they were things about drawing, cartography, and Roktar the Roamer novels. “They’ll want to question me.”
“Ssh, Jak.” Mother made a cutting motion as she rose. “It’ll be fine. Don’t draw attention.”
“Better me than you. You’re a woman.” He shoved a hand through his hair, knocking his hat to the floor.
“The general likes boys too,” one of the soldiers said wryly.
The other one snorted. “Maybe we should take him.”
“He’s too old and not that pretty. You know the general’s tastes.”
Jak curled a lip. “What kind of questioning is this?”
As his mother was lifted into the light, he glimpsed fear on her usually stoic face before she disappeared from view and the grate closed again. Damn it, why hadn’t he grabbed her? He should have kept them from taking her. Or at least forced them to take him with her.
With rage roaring in his ears, he pounded his fists against the wall. The metal offered no warm tingle or comfort this time.
Above, the mage guard returned to his place, indifferent to Jak’s outburst.
Tezi leaned her shoulder against the whitewashed stone wall in the hallway outside of the magistrate’s meeting chamber and attempted to look like a fierce, fit, and competent mercenary instead of like a little girl who was out of place in a military uniform adorned with weapons. At least she’d had the know-how to make adjustments to the hand-me-down tunic and trousers one of the women had given her, so her cuffs no longer caught under her boots.
“When we get the money, I want to stop at the blacksmith’s place before the medical-supply shop,” Sergeant Tinder told Dr. Fret. The three of them were waiting for the captain and lieutenant to finish their meeting with the magistrate. “You always spend everything on fancy potions and medical kits when all we need are bandages and sutures and painkillers.”
“I didn’t hear you complaining last night when I slathered your burns in magical healing ointment.” Fret was about half Tinder’s size with an impish face and perennially worried eyes. The only weapon she carried was a slender dagger, and she used it more often for cutting bandages than staving off enemies, though rumor had it she wasn’t afraid to bite people who tried to drag her away from the company. “I bet they don’t even hurt today.”
“They don’t, but I’d rather have bombs than magical healing.”
“You’d rather have bombs than anything. Your nickname should have been Sergeant Boom.”
“I agree. Is it too late to change it?” Tinder smirked. “Would you call me Boom in the bedroom?”
“No, I’d call you Little Minx, the same as I do now.”
Tezi grimaced and wondered if anyone would notice if she slipped through the open doors into the meeting chamber. She’d been honored to be asked along, even if it was only because the captain thought she had a smidgen of knowledge about jewelry, but she’d envisioned going with her and the lieutenant, not waiting in the hall with the company’s least discreet lovers. The temptation to go out and stand in the courtyard came over her, but the wind had shifted since their morning exercise session, and the air outside stank of the volcano. Ash fell on the coastal city like snow back home. Inches of it coated the sandstone streets, the fine gray powder swirling around people’s feet as they walked.
“They’ve been in there a long time.” Fret peered through the open doors. “Do you think it’s going all right? Do you think we’ll get paid? Funds have been so tight. I only have a few shreds of bandages left after yesterday. We’re lucky we didn’t lose anyone. Mages are awful.”
“Relax.” Tinder thumped her on the shoulder, almost tipping her over. Little Minx indeed. “We’ll get paid.”
“You will not be paid,” a man’s raised voice echoed out into the hallway. “You let one of Uthari’s mageships swoop down to our island and steal what I’ve been told is a priceless artifact from our territory.”
“You didn’t hire us to fight mages,” Lieutenant Sasko’s voice rang out. “You hired us to pick up the archaeology team, and we did that and dropped them off at the local university here. Go see them if you don’t believe me. And then come back and pay us if it’s not too terribly inconvenient for you.”
The captain said something quietly, probably a warning for Sasko to be more diplomatic.
Before, Tezi hadn’t been able to make out any of the muted words from the conversation inside, but now, half of the participants were yelling.
“Do not speak with such insolence to a government official appointed by King Zaruk himself, woman. And what’s inconvenient to me is the fact that one of Zaruk’s zidarr is on his way here now to discuss my failing.” A hint of panic edged the magistrate’s angry voice. “As if I knew about the artifact or that Uthari was sending people for it.”
“Didn’t you know a team of archaeologists was going out to hunt under the volcano?” the captain asked.
“They didn’t say they were hunting for a special artifact. And they paid all the necessary permits and fees for foreigners to study our lands.”
“You were paid?” Lieutenant Sasko asked brightly. “Then you can afford to pay us, as you agreed to.”
“I must use all extra funds to protect and clean up my city. Do you see the mess that volcano is making? The old and infirm are dying from the foul air. There is nothing extra in my coffers for mercenaries who did nothing to thwart those thieves. I was a fool to hire a bunch of women playing at being soldiers. Get out.”
Tezi bristled on behalf of the captain and the company. They were good fighters. She’d been on three missions now and knew it to be true, and in between missions, she’d trained every day with them. Yes, she was a rookie and had been taken in without any martial experience, but she was an exception. Every other woman in the unit had been a trained soldier or bodyguard or boxer or duelist before joining Thorn Company.
Fret bit her lip and whispered, “This is not good.”
Concern also entered Tinder’s eyes as she peered through the doors. “Uh oh.”
At first, Tezi thought they meant the fact that the company wasn’t going to get paid, but weapons clashed, and shouts sounded amid boots thundering across the marble floor. Tezi also peered inside.
Lieutenant Sasko had swept behind the magistrate, a heavyset man with the jowls of a bulldog, and held a dagger to his throat. The captain had magelock pistols in each hand pointed at the guards who’d charged in to help their official.
“He won’t be hurt,” the captain said calmly, “as long as the funds we are due are delivered to us in the next ten minutes.”
“You dare hold a blade to the magistrate’s throat.” One of the guards yanked out a magelock of his own.
The captain fired, the charge striking his hand.
He screamed and dropped his weapon, then cursed at her. “You won’t get out of here alive, bitch.”
“The money,” the captain said. “Arrange it.”
Tinder and Fret drew their own weapons and took a few steps into the chamber, but a clang sounded somewhere in the complex, and two guards charged around a corner in the hallway. They raced straight toward Tezi.
Though her first thought was to flee, she took a deep breath, drew her magelock pistol, and squeezed behind a support column for cover. This was what she’d been training for. She dared not flee and abandon her teammates.
Fortunately, Tinder ran back out to help her—the captain and lieutenant had the situation inside under control, at least until more guards showed up.
Both men ignored Tezi, drawing their weapons and focusing on Tinder as they ran closer. That surprised Tezi and then annoyed her. Did they not think she was a threat?
Tinder jumped back into the chamber a split second before they fired at her. Their blasts blew holes in the wall and the column framing the doorway. Tezi kicked out as the men tried to run past her. She hooked one of their legs, surprising him, but he flailed and recovered his balance.
Even though Tezi had a pistol, he gave her a dismissive glance and focused on Tinder. She’d jumped back out into the hallway, and she charged them, knocking aside one man’s pistol before he could shoot again. He threw a punch at her face, but she dodged it, kicked at his groin, and danced back. The second one thrust at her with a sword, but she saw it coming and parried. Tinder wasn’t intimidated by having two opponents, but she did throw a frustrated do-something-to-help glance at Tezi.
Tezi aimed her magelock but hesitated to fire. Tinder was so close to the men that she might hit her ally.
After parrying several more blows, including a blade whistling toward her head, Tinder jumped back and pulled out one of her favorite weapons. A grenade.
That gave Tezi an open shot at one of the guards. Worried they would get into a lot of trouble for killing people here, she fired at his shoulder.
The blue blast struck like a cannonball and sent him flying backward down the hallway, his sword falling from his hands.
Tinder dodged an angry blow from her remaining opponent, then darted in and feinted to his face with her short sword before stabbing him in the chest. Chainmail clanked under his tunic, but the weapon struck hard enough to make him grunt and stumble back. Tinder poked him twice more, drawing blood on either cheek, then held up the grenade.
“I don’t think you need to…” Tezi started to say but broke off at the sound of boots thundering on the floor in the hallway behind her and turned to see two more guards charging in to help.
“Duck,” Tinder ordered.
Seeing magelocks aimed at her, Tezi was already doing more than that. She dropped flat to her stomach. A blue charge buzzed over her head and slammed into the support column, blowing stone everywhere. Shards ricocheted off the walls and floor, barely missing her.
She knelt back up, raising her own magelock, but a dark projectile sailed over her head. Tinder’s grenade.
Even as Tezi lurched to her feet to run backward, Tinder grabbed her by the shoulder and hauled her into the meeting chamber. She started to shut the doors, but the grenade blew first, brilliant yellow light flashing in the hallway.
The half-shut doors blew inward, and Tezi stumbled farther into the chamber. In the hallway, something crashed to the floor—one of the columns? Smoke hazed the air, making the inside of the building as smoky as the air outside, and the stink of black powder stung Tezi’s nostrils.
Farther into the chamber, Fret was crouching behind a column with her hands over her head. Tinder had her magelock pointed at the open doors in case the guards recovered and charged in.
At the other end of the chamber, the lieutenant hadn’t moved. She stood calmly with her dagger to the magistrate’s throat. The captain had somehow disarmed the two guards inside and now held their weapons. She pointed her own pistols at them, though they lay in crumpled heaps on the floor now, groaning and barely moving.
Tezi longed for the day when she could fight like the captain. There wasn’t even a bead of sweat on her brow.
“Now,” the captain said calmly, “please arrange for our payment and do not force us to further damage your establishment or your employees. Even though we are merely women playing at being soldiers, we insist on being paid for our time, and we cannot allow people to take advantage of us. It’s death to one’s reputation, as you might imagine.”
“Maybe we should kill him, Captain,” the lieutenant said, a growl in her voice. “As an example to other government officials who may be tempted to screw over mercenaries.”
Tezi couldn’t tell if she was truly contemplating it or if it was a bluff. The magistrate couldn’t either. A bead of sweat ran down the side of his face, and he licked his lips.
“Bookkeeper Crudar.” He glanced toward a door in the back wall behind a podium and several massive desks. “Are you still back there?”
“Yes, sir, but I’m busy.”
“Busy doing what?”
“Cowering under my desk.”
“Get out here and bring—”
The courtyard doors banged open, and hazy daylight flooded the hallway and the meeting chamber. Tinder aimed at the opening, and Tezi mirrored her, though she couldn’t yet see anyone outlined in the doorway. Strangely, she couldn’t hear anyone out there either. On the way in, a handful of vendors had been hawking their wares in the courtyard, unfazed by the ash. Now, the courtyard was quiet.
“Who—” Tinder started to ask, but it turned into a curse as her magelock flew from her hands. It hit the ceiling with a clank and clattered down ten feet away.
Tezi tightened her grip on her own weapon, but it didn’t matter. A burst of tremendous power tore it from her grasp, leaving her palms bleeding. Her magelock hit a wall instead of the ceiling. She ran to retrieve it, half because she knew the sergeant would yell at her if she lost her weapon and half because she didn’t want to be near the door when whoever had done that walked in.
A mage. It had to be. One of the ones from the island? Coming to get the medallion?
An invisible force wrapped around her before she reached her weapon, immobilizing her. It was only luck that she’d been glancing back and was able to see the three figures that strode into the chamber.
Two men in dark-blue uniforms walked to either side of an imposing white-haired man in black clothing with a black cloak swept back from his shoulders. He had that same dangerous energy about him that Malek had, and Tezi knew without asking that this was another zidarr. And dark-blue uniforms meant these were Zaruk’s people.
They looked around the chamber, faces indifferent to the injured guards on the floor and to the mercenaries responsible. Only the zidarr’s face held any expression, a faint smirk as he met the magistrate’s eyes.
“It appears that you are irritating many people this week, Magistrate.”
“I—” Even more beads of sweat ran down the magistrate’s face now. “Yes, Lord Stone Heart. It was not my intent. I didn’t know about the artifact. These mercenaries were there. They did nothing to stop Uthari’s people.”
The lieutenant’s eyes narrowed at this attempt to blame Thorn Company, and her grip tightened on her dagger. Would she kill the magistrate in cold blood?
The zidarr snorted. “What would magic-dead mercenaries have done? You should have informed King Zaruk the instant Malek’s mageship entered our air. You have scouts, do you not? Watchtowers along the coast?”
“Yes, my lord, but with the volcano, we were distracted. We did not know until it was too late.”
“The king does not accept excuses for incompetence,” Stone Heart said softly, and a shiver went through Tezi as she remembered her previous encounters with their kind. Would this go as badly for the company as it inevitably would for the magistrate?
Stone Heart’s gaze swept over the mercenaries again. It halted when it reached Tezi.
She looked down, hoping he couldn’t read her thoughts, hoping that he hadn’t heard about what had happened up north to a mage in Cedarworks who’d come for women to please his master. And hoping that he wasn’t shopping for women to please his master while he was here today. Surely, with her back to him and that fresh wound on her temple, she couldn’t look like some appealing bed toy to sweep up, not now.
I know what you’ve done, his voice sounded in her mind, a whisper.
The magical power rooting her in place didn’t keep her from shivering.
Had it been one of King Zaruk’s mages that you slew, I would be obligated to kill you. By the Zidarr Code, I should kill you regardless for daring to stab one of our kind. He sounded like he was contemplating it.
Tezi didn’t reply, tried not even to think a response. She hated that these people could hold her powerless, keep her from even running. There was no chance against them, nothing one could do to fight back unless one of them was asleep atop a girl, drunken and sated. Then… then they were only human.
A chuckle sounded in her mind. Yes. Sleep is the great equalizer, is it not? I will let you live because Zaruk is irked with King Darekar this month, but you had best not show your face in Darekar’s lands again. Also know that his people will not let the murder of a mage go unpunished. They will be looking for you, and justice for such a crime is pursued beyond borders. Do not cross paths with mages in other kingdoms if you value your life. They will be looking for you.
Why are you warning me? Tezi dared ask.
Because you had the courage to kill your tormentor. Courage is the third tenet.
Finally, his gaze left Tezi. Tremors shook her body. She hated herself for the relief, the weakness. One day, she would be stronger. The captain, she was certain, would not shake even if a zidarr was speaking to her.
“Leave the chamber, Thorn Company,” Stone Heart said, power making the command impossible to disobey.
That he knew who they were worried Tezi, and she was relieved when the magic wrapping around her forced her to pick up her magelock and walk woodenly toward the exit. Much better to be shooed out than be punished alongside the magistrate. The captain, Tinder, and Fret were also forced toward the exit. For a long moment, Sasko remained with her dagger to the magistrate’s throat, though she also did not appear to have control over her own body.
“I am tempted to have you make good on your threat,” Stone Heart told her, “as some form of poetic justice, since I gather he has refused to pay you despite the completion of your services. But the king insists that those who fail be made examples of, and a throat-cutting by some mercenary would be too benign for his theatrical requirements. The public, and anyone who assumes the magistrate’s position after him, must know that the zidarr came for him, per the king’s orders.”
Stone Heart flicked a finger, and Sasko lowered her knife. Without a word—it must have been magic keeping her usually sarcastic tongue still—she marched out after Tezi and the others.
Once they were in the courtyard—all of the vendors and people who’d been in it earlier were gone—the doors thudded closed behind them. Most of the way closed. The forced opening had mutilated the hinges.
“So much for getting paid,” the captain said with a sigh.
“Mages are getting in the way far too much for my tastes this week,” Tinder said.
After her conversation with the zidarr, Tezi agreed. She hoped the company moved on soon, especially after his warning. When she’d fled a thousand miles and across two kingdoms to get away from King Darekar’s minions, she’d thought she would be safe, but clearly that wasn’t true. Would she have to look over her shoulder for the rest of her life? What might be the rest of her short life?
“Guess we’re not getting any more supplies, explosive or healing,” Fret said wistfully as their group hurried toward the arched doorway leading out of the courtyard, the thick ashy air tickling Tezi’s throat again.
“Not true.” Once they’d slipped into the street and made sure no more blue-uniformed men were around, Lieutenant Sasko pulled out a fistful of silver rin coins. “There’s not enough here to make payroll, but we can resupply before traveling to our next assignment.”
“You robbed the magistrate while you held a dagger to his throat?” the captain asked blandly.
“I didn’t rob him. I extracted as much of our fee as I was able to locate in his pockets.”
The captain took it, split it between Fret and Tinder, and waved them toward the shopping district. “Get what supplies you can with that. We’ll leave Perchver and look for work up north. Where ash isn’t filling the air and mages, hopefully, aren’t stealing artifacts from each other.”
A scream pierced the heavy air, and Tezi jumped. It came from the meeting chamber through the ill-shut doors, and she had no doubt it belonged to the magistrate. More screams followed, screams of sheer pain that echoed through the streets. The few people who were out hurried inside, slamming their doors and shutters.
Was the zidarr handling the torture himself? What strange code valued courage but allowed torment? Tezi could not imagine living in their world, and she hoped she never saw another of their kind again.
But as the captain led her and the lieutenant on their next errand, Tezi doubted she would be that lucky. As they walked, she looked over her shoulder often, terrified she would see a mage stalking her, ready to exact revenge.
Chapter 9
9
Hoping for inspiration, Jadora peeked in every alcove and open door she passed as the two soldiers led her to a portion of the ship she hadn’t seen on the way in. Maybe she would spot something that she could slip into a pocket, take back to her cell, and use to escape.
She regretted using all of her irithika powder and smoke-bomb canisters back at the volcano. All she had left in her pockets were vials of yargo, a substance that could be mixed with water and glycerin to make molds of objects too large to remove from the field. That wouldn’t get them out of their cell.
Unfortunately, her captors didn’t give her much time to snoop. The soldiers were staying close, watching her intently, and hustling her along. She reminded herself that they were not just soldiers but mages too, possibly telepathic, and she had better not spend too much time thinking about escape, now or when she was questioned. Her captors might punish her for such thoughts.
Her only relief was that they hadn’t taken Jak from the cell. As much as he wanted to be with her, to try to protect her, she was terrified he would anger them and they would kill him. If only he and Darv had been left with the rest of her team, and only she were here in danger.
But she didn’t know if the rest of her team was safe. That weighed on her shoulders. This had been her expedition, her passion. She’d arranged the funding and talked them into coming. If they didn’t make it back home, it would be her fault.
They turned into a wide side corridor, the first to remind her of a sailing ship with doors and presumably cabins to either side. Was this where the officers’ quarters were? The soldiers pointed her to wide double doors at the end. The cabin of the head officer. Would it be Malek or the general? Or the ship’s captain?
When she’d seen the shark figurehead, Captain Ferroki had identified this as Malek’s mageship, but that didn’t necessarily mean he commanded it. He might simply be the most powerful person who rode around in it, causing people to refer to it as his.
As strange as it seemed, Jadora found herself hoping for Malek as her questioner rather than the general. He might be the more dangerous of the two, but she also suspected he had fewer vices. Those comments about Tonovan’s tastes disturbed her. Even in her youth, she hadn’t been enough of a beauty to tempt any mage to sweep her up for their master’s pleasure chambers, and surely, she was past the age now where that would be a threat, but unease crept down her spine nonetheless as they approached the end of the corridor.
The doors opened before anyone knocked. A girl, naked except for a silver slaveband around her head, waited for them with a flagon of wine in her hands. She was beautiful but couldn’t have been more than fourteen or fifteen, and unlike the voluntary magebands, slavebands couldn’t be removed by the person wearing them. Grunts came from the side of a large cabin furnished lavishly, and the air smelled of sex and floral perfumes and incense. It created a heady mix that was possibly intoxicating.
Jadora’s unease increased with the certainty that there wouldn’t be anything normal about this questioning.
“Inside.” One of the soldiers poked her in the back, making her realize that she’d stopped on the threshold.
“Are you sure?” Jadora asked, trying to muster some courage. “He sounds busy.”
“He’s always busy.”
The wine girl stepped aside, and the soldier shoved her again. Mentally bracing herself, Jadora walked in.
She wasn’t surprised, though she was strangely relieved, that it was General Tonovan naked on a plush couch next to an unmade poster bed. Three more girls were with him, no older than the first, two on his sides, kissing and stroking him, and one on her knees between his legs. Though he was busy, that didn’t keep him from focusing on Jadora as she walked in.
Instead of looking at his little orgy, she stared at the wall straight ahead and tried to inhale shallowly as she clasped her hands behind her back. A huge painting showed a battlefield full of mages with terrene men dead on the ground all around, others being defeated by magical blasts slamming into their armored chests. It was labeled The First Magic War. Even though it showed her distant ancestors being slain, it was the most innocuous thing in the cabin. Elsewhere, sex toys and torture implements dominated the decor, with pornographic paintings mounted on the walls around the bed. She felt like she’d been thrust straight into Hell and could hear the slavemasters’ whips cracking.
One of her guards sighed and joined her in studying the painting. The other watched the more active exhibit in the cabin with interest.
Despite looking at her, Tonovan didn’t otherwise acknowledge her until he climaxed. He draped his arms across the back of the couch while the girls continued to stroke him. Strange how mages—even powerful wizards—didn’t look any different naked than normal men. It seemed that monsters should have green skin and fangs dripping saliva.
“Welcome to my sanctuary in the air, Professor. Let’s have a chat.” Tonovan tilted his head. “Do you remember me? You didn’t say.”
Jadora swallowed. She had wondered if he remembered her.
“I remember,” she said quietly.
“When I came to your house that night, I was seething with disappointment. We’d scoured your husband’s office and hadn’t found his journal, the journal King Uthari believed held the secret to the artifact’s location. The journal that King Uthari wanted very badly. He’d given me the simple task of acquiring it, and he’s never pleased when his tasks aren’t completed. On the other hand, he rewards those well who complete his tasks adequately. It is a great pleasure to be rewarded by a wizard more powerful than oneself.” He smiled and slid a hand down his chest.
Jadora had no idea if he was hinting at something sexual or some form of magical pleasure she couldn’t guess at, and she didn’t care. All she wanted was to get out of this cabin with its muddled smells—she was positive that incense was burning a drug that would affect her brain. It annoyed her that she couldn’t identify it, but it was mixed with other substances. She picked out bergamot, cedar, and dok-naruth amid the more floral scents. Already, her thoughts seemed muzzy, and she caught herself glancing toward Tonovan when he spoke.
“And I will be rewarded,” he continued. “When I dumped your husband’s head on your kitchen floor, I saw the fury and determination on your face. You wanted to kill me, but you also wanted to find what it was he’d been killed for. I knew you would locate the journal eventually, and that if we kept track of you, you would lead us to the artifact.”
Yes, Loran’s journal had come in the mail later that week. That meant he’d known someone was hunting him, but he hadn’t said anything to her. Maybe there hadn’t been time. Maybe he’d only had minutes to wrap it and post it from campus.
“Why did you kill him?” Jadora caught herself whispering, though she didn’t want to participate in this conversation in any way.
“He refused to answer our questions, and we could not read his mind. Even the zidarr could not, and it is part of their training to learn to use their powers to sift through the thoughts of enemies. Strange, that. I suspect he was one of the untrained who slipped through the cracks.” Tonovan lifted his eyebrows in bored curiosity. “Was he?”
“No,” she said, trying not to think of her recent conversation with Jak and how he had admitted to being able to feel magic in magical items. She was positive that Loran hadn’t had any ability to sense or use magic in any way, so she couldn’t imagine how Jak could have developed such a knack. “Knowing Loran, he probably had some magical trinket he’d found and wore for protection from mind reading.”
That had to be it. In the years Jadora had known Loran, he hadn’t done anything to suggest superhuman abilities. And neither had anyone in his family. She knew his parents well and still had dinner with them occasionally—she got along better with them than with her own father. As far as she knew, the ability to use magic was hereditary, so someone in Loran’s family would have demonstrated such aptitude if it existed. Loran hadn’t had any such abilities, and neither did Jak. It wasn’t possible.
“Are you sure?” Tonovan chuckled. “I may not be the mind reader a zidarr is, but you’re a poor liar. Academics are all the same; their faces are as open as the books they read. Does the boy have power?”
“No.” Jadora tried to sound as truthful as she could, but Jak’s words in the cell put uncertainty into her.
Jak was far past the age when children found with power were adopted and taken to the sky castles for training—training and brainwashing—never to be seen by their families again. Those older than twelve were deemed too dangerous, too indoctrinated in the terrene human way, to become truly loyal to the mages, and they were killed. She could not allow that to happen to Jak.
“What questions did you have for me?” she asked, hoping to change the subject.
Fortunately, Tonovan was fondling a breast and watching two of the girls kissing each other in his lap, acting out his fantasies for him. Jadora prayed his interests would keep him from wondering further about Jak.
“What does it do?” Tonovan murmured.
Jadora blinked. The portal? She kept herself from blurting, You don’t know?
King Uthari had to know. He wouldn’t care this much about it otherwise. He wouldn’t have risked sending a ship into another kingdom’s territory to retrieve it.
“It’s a portal?” Tonovan asked.
Had he read that in her mind, or had she uttered it out loud? She caught herself mumbling. Dear Shylezar, was she so drugged that she couldn’t keep her lips shut? She had to get out of there.
She took a step back but bumped into the chest of one of the guards. His hand wrapped around her biceps.
“I thought it might be something like that,” Tonovan mused.
Heavy breathing sounded in Jadora’s ear. The guard was watching the women’s show. They both were now. Of course, the incense would be affecting them too.
“How do you activate it?” Tonovan seemed less addled by the drug than she. Maybe he used it all the time and had built up a tolerance. “And where does it go?”
“I don’t know,” Jadora mumbled, distracted by the guard being so close. She tried to move away from him, but he gripped her tightly and shifted closer, his chest against her back.
“But you’ve done research and have ideas. We have the journal now. We’ll soon know all you know. We will set up the portal in the main courtyard of Uthari’s castle, and all will know that his greatest and most powerful general was responsible for finding it. And we’ll explore the place this portal leads to and perhaps find resources that can be used against our enemies. There will be no further need for all this wretched diplomacy between kings or fear of upsetting the tenuous peace, lest we be distracted by war, and the discontented beasts below take advantage.” Tonovan smiled at her, making it clear that normal humans were the beasts in his eyes. What did that mean then that he was willing to have sex with them?
Tonovan laughed. Had she spoken aloud again? Damn it, she had to escape that incense.
“Come take your place, Professor.” Tonovan pushed the women aside and spread his legs. “You were not bad-looking before, and the dakya makes everyone beautiful.”
Dakya, of course. That was the drug. It was even more intoxicating than irithika, and it enhanced libido. Just what she needed.
The guard’s grip tightened painfully on her biceps, and he wrapped his other arm around her, as if he meant to keep her for himself. She reacted before she could think better of it, stomping on his instep and trying to surge out of his grip. But his mind was as drugged as hers, and if he felt the pain, he didn’t react to it. He only growled and held her tighter.
“Release, Rowtar,” Tonovan growled and flung up an arm. Both guards flew back, one hitting the wall and one tumbling into the door. It might have been her opportunity to flee if one hadn’t still blocked the way. “The professor will be mine. Just as the portal and all the glory will be mine.”
“What about Malek?” Jadora glanced around desperately for a weapon. Could she grab one of the guard’s swords? Tonovan’s power had struck them so hard they were gasping for air.
Wait, there was a bar of soap on a shelf by a washbasin. Glycerin to go with her yargo. And perhaps unsurprisingly, there was a tin of lubricant as well.
She crept toward the washbasin, but power wrapped around her, freezing her before she could grab the items.
“Malek,” Tonovan growled, “can suck my—”
The door opened, and Malek walked in without knocking. The guards stumbled out of his path, though Malek wrinkled his nose and didn’t go far into the cabin.
The power freezing Jadora disappeared as Tonovan focused on him. She pretended to stumble before recovering her balance by catching herself on the washbasin. She grabbed the soap and lubricant, stuffed them in a pocket, and tried to suck in some of the untainted air that flowed in through the open door.
“I have questions for the professor.” Malek’s voice turned dry. “She wasn’t in her cell.” Other than his mild distaste for the heady air, he seemed unsurprised and indifferent to the scene.
“I also had questions for her,” Tonovan said. “I have learned much.”
“Oh? Do you know what the artifact does yet?”
Jadora crept toward the door. The guards weren’t paying attention. Maybe Malek would end up enraptured by the drug and the show and not notice her slipping out…
“It is a portal,” Tonovan said grandly, “to another world.”
“Which world?”
“I was about to ask her.”
“Clearly.” Malek flicked a dismissive glance at Tonovan’s genitals. “I’ll take over the questioning.”
Great, just who she wanted to talk to while her brain was addled.
Jadora eased into the corridor and made it several steps. She started to believe they might be distracted enough not to notice her departure, but a hand clamped down on her shoulder. She winced. It wasn’t a hard grip, not like the guard who’d left bruises on her arm, but it was firm and unyielding.
“Next door on your left,” Malek said.
Jadora sighed. At least she still had the soap. For the moment. Malek might have noticed her take it. Remembering his propensity for reading minds, she forced her thoughts away from it and walked to the indicated door. There wasn’t a knob or latch—none of the doors had them—but it opened when she turned toward it.
She braced herself for whatever macabre horrors Malek’s cabin would be full of.
It had none. It was half the size of Tonovan’s cabin and had only a neatly made bunk, a desk, chair, and clothes wardrobe with the doors closed. Everything was tidy, save for a grimy towel hanging on a hook by the door. There was no artwork, pornographic or otherwise, and only a single sign hung on a wall. The Zidarr Code, it read at the top in unembellished print, with the five tenets listed below: integrity, duty, courage, austerity, and honor.
The air in the cabin was blessedly clean, and already, Jadora’s head was clearing, thank the gods. But her feeling of gratitude was fleeting, for she spotted Loran’s journal open on the desk. Several pages of freshly written notes rested beside it, along with two archaeology books. She recognized the titles as the most prominent in the small field of dragon philology.
She stared bleakly at the journal, the reminder of her husband’s death. The feeling of defeat crept into her again, along with fear that she couldn’t get out of this, and that even if she could, she wouldn’t be able to get the portal away from these people.
“Sit.” Malek pointed toward a chair.
“Which one of you is in charge?” Jadora moved toward the chair, keeping her pocket with the pilfered items turned away from him.
“Tonovan commands the Utharian mage army, more than ten thousand men.”
“Does that mean he outranks you?”
“I am not a military officer.”
“But he defers to you.”
“Uthari likes me more.”
“That shouldn’t take much,” she muttered, sitting gingerly.
Malek remained standing, leaning against the wall across from her, his arms folded over his chest. “It’s presumed to be a portal to the world the dragons came from, the world where they originally evolved. The author of the journal didn’t know why they came to Torvil or why they later left, but there are hypotheses that the climate may have shifted and grown inhospitable to their kind, or that, after creating humans, they wished to leave us to evolve without interference from their greater kind. That hypothesis, of course, requires that one’s religious beliefs allow that dragons might have created mankind, instead of the more typical opinion that the farm god Thanok convinced the sun and moon gods to help create men, so that he would not be alone in this form.”
Her mind had snagged on the author of the journal, and she barely heard his summation. Loran. Did Malek not even know his name? Or did he not care? One dead archaeologist was the same as another…
It took her a moment to realize he’d paused. Waiting for her opinion on the origins of mankind?
“Much to my priest father’s consternation, I subscribe to the nonreligious theory that humans evolved naturally from other species, constructed the notions of gods to suit their needs, and that dragons came along later, perhaps through this very portal, to visit us and perhaps influence our kind.” Belatedly, she wished she could retract the comment about her father. She’d barely spoken to him since her mother died, but these people could easily find him and use him as a way to manipulate her.
Malek’s eyes narrowed thoughtfully, but it might have been because he shared her father’s opinion of how blasphemous her beliefs were. When he spoke again, it was to continue his summary. “The journal also puts forth the hypothesis that the dragons were at war with each other or another unknown enemy and that they were driven to flee this world. It sounds like there’s no proof and that there is little evidence to support any of these notions. That the portal goes to another world at all is also in question since legends of it all predate humanity’s written tongues. And most examples of what were once believed to be samples of the dragon language, carved into ancient pillars and stones, were later proven to be human-made.” He pointed at the philology books, then tapped the journal. “Nine-tenths of this was dedicated to finding the portal. It was presumed that once it was found, the secrets—directions on how to operate it—would be evident on the artifact itself. I’ve been studying it, and there are indeed symbols on it. A language perhaps.”
Jadora kept herself from gaping at the revelation. She’d hoped for symbols—symbols that could be translated and would turn out to be instructions on operation and information about the builders. Under any other circumstances, she would have been delighted about this, but she wanted to be the one studying those symbols, not hearing about them from an enemy.
“They emanate magic—the entire portal does—but neither physically pressing them nor magically pressing them does anything.”
Jadora stared at the desk, trying to tamp down annoyance that he’d already gotten to examine it and she hadn’t even seen it up close. She was the one who’d spent the last five years searching for it. And she was the one who’d located it. These people never would have found it if not for her. But despite all her care, she’d led them right to it. Tonovan had said they’d been tracking her somehow. Watching her more closely than she’d realized. Was that truth or bluster? If they’d been watching her all these years, and she hadn’t known it…
“Tonovan didn’t know anything.” Malek snorted softly. “One of your people at the university is on Uthari’s payroll. The king has spies all over his realm and in all of his fellow kings’ realms. They have the same. It’s the way of things.”
“Who was it?” Jadora doubted he would tell her. Did she even want to know? It wasn’t as if she would ever be permitted to return home. Would she even be allowed to live after they’d scoured her mind for everything she knew? What about Jak?
He twitched a shoulder. “Professor Nugyarin. Perhaps if you confront him, he’ll share the bribe money with you. And there’s no reason you can’t live. Cooperate with us. Uthari wants the portal and to know how to operate it. That’s all.”
“That’s all?” Her voice cracked, but she didn’t care. “You people killed my husband.”
Maybe she should have said you killed my husband. Had he? Tonovan had said a zidarr did it. Was she looking in the eyes of her husband’s murderer?
“He didn’t cooperate,” Malek said quietly.
He must have heard the rest of her thoughts, but he didn’t respond to them. She glanced at the sign on the wall. Integrity, duty, courage, austerity, honor… Words that only applied to the way he interacted with his master, no doubt. No need to have integrity with mere humans.
“Do you want to see the portal?” he asked. “I’ve cleaned it off.”
“Yourself?”
Surely, that was the kind of thing mages made their enslaved minions do.
“The minions got zapped when they touched it. No, not when they touched it, but when they started scrubbing it too aggressively.” Malek glanced toward the grimy towel. “I can scrub something without touching it.”
Jadora almost choked on the idea of scrubbing an ancient artifact. As impervious as dragon steel was, she would have used the tools in her archaeology kit for delicately removing sand and grit from bones, potsherds, and other brittle finds.
“It doesn’t look that brittle. Come, I’ll show it to you.” His eyes narrowed again. “There’s something I want you to see.”
He’d seemed almost friendly for a moment—or at least like a normal human being—but that last sentence put her on edge. He hadn’t yet questioned her, merely shared what he’d learned from the journal. Maybe he’d been reading her mind to verify that he’d interpreted it correctly.
“You haven’t asked me any questions yet,” she said.
“I will.” Malek led the way into the corridor, trusting that she would follow him.
And she would. Even if escape should be her priority, she dearly wanted to see these symbols. After all these years of searching, just to see the portal cleaned up and out in the open would be a delight. And to touch it, hopefully without being zapped. It sounded like the men trying to clean it had activated the same defenses that had been employed on the drakur.
“Did your, uhm, minions get badly hurt when they were zapped?” Jadora asked the back of his head as she followed him—his hair was as tidy as his cabin, freshly trimmed along the hairline. A strange thing to notice.
“They said it stung, but they weren’t killed. Not like those drakur.” He glanced back. “I assume the portal did that?”
“Yes.”
Maybe it was pressure sensitive. Or could it somehow sense a person’s intent? A warning zap to those who knocked against it and death to any who genuinely tried to destroy it? She shook her head. Pressure sensitivity seemed more plausible. She wasn’t ready to assign sentience to the portal, though when she remembered that vision, she did wonder about it.
“They were stabbing it with spears,” she added.
“And you worried about me scrubbing it too vigorously with my towel.”
Jadora blinked. He was facing forward again, so she couldn’t tell if he was amused, but it sounded like it. That unnerved her for some reason. Enemies were supposed to be like—well, that idiot with his orgy. Given all the dreadful stories that existed about the zidarr, she wasn’t prepared to think of them as capable of having senses of humor. Especially when one of them—maybe even the one she was following—had killed her husband.
Fresh air swept over her face as they climbed up stairs leading high over the spacious hold to an open hatch. The octopus of an engine throbbed below. There were no railings, making the climb precarious, and she stepped carefully. Beyond the open hatch, the side of a uniformed soldier was in view.
Remembering the one who’d grabbed her, Jadora shifted to the far side of the hatchway as she climbed out. The pocket with the soap and tin clunked against the jamb, and she grimaced, hoping Malek hadn’t heard that. But he kept walking, heading across the black deck under a black sky full of stars. That puzzled her since she’d thought the full night had passed and it would be daylight by now, but she supposed if they were traveling in a westerly direction, they had been chasing the sunset the evening before. Strange to think that the mageships moved quickly enough to either shorten or extend a day, depending on their route.
A half moon beamed silver light onto the massive portal taking up most of the space on the deck. Artificial yellow light, the source indiscernible, further brightened the area.
Her gaze caught on four lifeboats mounted near the railings on either side of the deck. They were more sophisticated than escape craft she’d seen on sailing ships, having cabins with windows up front and open seating areas in the back. In each cabin, a navigation wheel was visible, glowing a faint silver-blue. Jadora had no doubt that magic powered the lifeboats and could keep them aloft in the sky; what she didn’t know was if someone without magic could pilot one. If so, maybe she, Jak, and Darv had a better shot at escaping than she’d believed.
If they could get out of their cells and launch a lifeboat without anyone noticing. Given that half a dozen uniformed mages were out on the deck, even in the middle of the night, that was questionable.
Malek walked to a particular point on the far side of the portal and waited for her. She navigated around it more slowly, trailing her fingers along the smooth surface—as the portal lay on its side, it came up higher than her waist—and gawking at its beauty. The entwined dragons were even more elegant than she’d realized, each one symmetrical and each with a symbol she’d never seen before.
To her shock, three familiar runes were engraved at what might have been the bottom. They were in Ancient Zeruvian, the first written language believed to have been developed. She stared at it, amazed even as she was puzzled. The dragons and the artifacts they’d left behind on Torvil all pre-dated any known occurrences of that language. By millennia. That meant that language had either existed longer than anyone realized, or this had been added later. Had early Zeruvians presumed to carve into the portal? Would it, with its propensity for defending itself, even have allowed that? And if so, how would humans have done this when dragon steel was impervious to everything scientists had thrown at it in their experiments?
“That’s not the dragon tongue,” Malek said.
“No.”
“Can you read it?”
She thought about lying, but he would see the lie in her mind. Besides, she was fairly certain these words didn’t hold the key to its operation or origins. “Gateway to the stars.”
“Ah.” A few feet away, Malek rested his hand on the surface, not on one of the symbols but on something else that was located on one of the dragon tails. A circular hole with jagged, uneven edges.
Recognition and alarm jolted Jadora. She’d thought that might be there—she should have known to expect it.
“This wasn’t mentioned anywhere in the notebook,” Malek said, watching her intently.
“You’ve read it all already?” she asked, buying time to think.
“I’m a fast reader.” His tone was cool now, making her wonder if she’d imagined the earlier humor. The humanity.
“I don’t know why there’s a hole.” She didn’t know for certain why there was a hole. And she tried to keep any thoughts related to it out of her mind while his eyes bored into her like drills.
“But you think it’s a keyhole.”
“It’s possible. It may simply be decorative. Or for drainage.”
“Drainage,” he said, his tone flat.
She smiled, hoping vainly that it would disarm him. “Yes, drainage. In case water gets inside.”
“Professor Freedar.” Malek did not sound disarmed. “I’ve read your papers. I’ve scoured your notes. I know you are intelligent. Please allow that I am, at the least, not an idiot.”
An unfortunate truth she’d figured out immediately. And the fact that he’d read her papers, papers that had nothing to do with archaeology or dragon artifacts, only alarmed her further. Just how long and how closely had these people been following her?
“You are, however, my enemy,” she said quietly.
“The Magic Wars were two thousand years ago. The kings are your rulers, not your enemies.”
“We did not choose them as rulers. We are enslaved by them.”
“You have a house and a career that you freely chose. You are not a slave.”
“I will grant that I have it better than many,” or so it had been until she’d been captured, “but I do not have the right to speak freely, to choose the type of rule or ruler I wish to guide society, or to live without fear of punishment for saying or doing the wrong thing. People disappear all the time. My husband was blatantly killed. Those born into the ruling caste, in their cities in the clouds, have little idea what it is to live as we do. To live in fear and oppression, to struggle to earn enough to feed our families, while our rulers take half of what we earn in taxes and live in opulence. Why do you think you find it so easy to bribe our people to become spies for your kings? Because they need the money. Everybody always needs money. Woe to she who falls ill without family to take her in. Come live as we do without your powers and then see how you feel toward your rulers.”
“I am well aware of how you live,” he said but didn’t elaborate, instead stepping forward.
Too close for comfort. If she skittered back, would he allow it? Or use his power to hold her?
Malek reached for her—no, for her pocket. Before she could think to block him, he pulled out the two items she’d taken from Tonovan’s cabin.
He looked at the bar first. “Soap?”
“We haven’t been allowed to clean.”
He read the label on the tin, his eyebrows drifting upward. “And lubricant?”
“My skin is rough. Digging by hand gives you calluses.”
He gazed at her—his face wasn’t far from hers, his dark eyes seeing far too much as they studied hers. “I’m tempted to give these back to you to see what you do with them.”
“I’m open to that.”
Instead, he set the items on the portal and again rested his hand next to the conspicuous hole. “Tell me if a key goes into this and what it does? Is it what allows the portal to operate?”
“I don’t know.” Jadora looked toward the night sky and imagined dragons flying among the stars and what it might be like to ride on the back of such a magnificent creature, to speak with it of the ancient times, to ask why it had left Torvil so long ago. She thought of anything that she could that had nothing to do with the portal and Jak’s medallion.
Malek sighed and leaned back. Had she succeeded in keeping him from extracting the information from her mind?
He studied the deck, scrutinized it intently though there was nothing down there. He looked like… A sickly feeling came over her. Like he was trying hard to remember something.
“The hat,” he said, looking up. “There was something in it when I first came down to your camp.”
Damn it, she’d removed the key before the disks had arrived on the beach. Malek must have come down before the soldiers. He’d been back there watching everything.
“Some kind of golden medallion with embellishments.” He touched the hole. “That’s the key, isn’t it?”
She didn’t verify it for him.
“Did you give it to one of the archaeologists? Or the mercenaries?”
She kept her mind blank. His eyes narrowed again as he contemplated her. Thinking of torturing her to get the information? Maybe he would return her to Tonovan’s foul den until she blurted everything under the influence of that incense.
“I’ll find it,” he said. “You—”
He broke off and looked toward the sky behind the ship, suddenly as intent and alert as a wolf.
“We have company coming,” he said, his voice icy cold. “Sergeant.” He waved for one of the ubiquitous soldiers to come over. “Take her back to her cell.”
“Yes, my lord.”
“Secure the artifact,” he yelled to another soldier, then took off across the deck at a sprint.
Before her guard arrived, Jadora snatched the soap and tin and stuffed them back into her pocket. The man’s eyes were toward the stars, and he didn’t notice. Concern tightened his face.
Whatever company was coming, it wasn’t friendly.
Jadora looked back as the soldier led her below and glimpsed another dark shape blotting out the stars. Another mageship.
Chapter 10
10
A sentry disk propelled by magic floated through the sandstone streets of Perchver, the silver globe mounted atop it glowing slightly. Tezi had seen them before in big metropolises and knew they were eyes for the government, watching the citizens and making sure nobody fomented rebellion. Since most land-based cities in the kingdoms were overseen by terrene humans who didn’t have magical power themselves, they were given numerous tools with which to do their jobs.
In the past, Tezi hadn’t worried much about sentry disks, but the zidarr’s warning burned in her mind. She turned her face away from it and walked close behind Sasko and the captain.
“You sure he’s still living in Perchver?” Sasko asked. “And are you sure he’s still alive? It’s been almost a year, hasn’t it?”
“He’s still alive,” the captain said. “The last I heard, he hadn’t finished his book yet.”
Sasko grunted. “Is he going to kill himself after he finishes?”
“He might. Honestly, I thought he’d take his life after the massacre.” The captain’s voice held a note of distress, if not anguish. Who were they talking about? “He’s determined to tell his story first and out everyone who betrayed him, but I don’t know who he thinks will risk the wizards’ wrath by printing it.”
“Nobody will. It would be career suicide if not actual suicide.”
“More than that. The wizards would probably destroy the print shop and everyone who witnessed the book being created.” The captain turned at an intersection, leading them into an old merchant district that had fallen on hard times. Cracks meandered through the white plaster walls of two-story buildings with shops on the bottom and apartments on the top. The roofs were full of broken terra-cotta tiles, some having fallen off and shattered in the alleys. Laundry hung over rusty railings on narrow balconies, nobody caring that it was collecting ash while it dried.
“Everyone already knows the story anyway,” Sasko said.
“Every mercenary, maybe.”
Tezi didn’t. She wanted to ask for details, but she didn’t want to intrude or remind the captain and lieutenant that she was with them, listening to their conversation. They might decide to send her back to the company alone, and she didn’t want to be alone with mages in the city. Even without that threat, Perchver wasn’t the safest place, especially now that they’d traveled away from the government sector.
Beggars hunkered at corners, gaunt from starvation and their eyes glazed, magebands around their heads distracting them from reality. Children ran around without shirts or shoes. Every other alley had a fight taking place in it. Tezi’s village had been poor too, but people had worked together to help make sure everyone was fed and had a roof. The citizens here seemed much worse off.
“Are you thinking of leaving the thing with him?” Sasko glanced at the pocket where the captain had tucked the gold-plated medallion. “Or selling it to him? You said he’s an expert in acquiring stolen artifacts now, right? Maybe he knows how to get rid of them too.”
“He might, but I mostly want to ask him if he knows more about it, and see if he has any darkeye fabric to hide it so mages can’t sense it.”
Sasko groaned. “You wouldn’t care about hiding it if you weren’t planning to keep it.”
“I’d also like to check in on him, as long as we’re here in his city. And make sure he’s… doing all right.”
Sasko eyed her, and Tezi waited for her to point out that the captain hadn’t responded to her statement. All she said was, “You two never got horizontal, did you?”
The captain eyed her back while Tezi gaped, having a hard time imagining her in a relationship. She seemed so indifferent to such things and so dedicated to running the company.
“You know we didn’t,” the captain said. “I’ve just known him a long time.”
“As long as you trust him not to sell us out,” Sasko grumbled, eyeing the pocket again. “Or try to steal that thing from you. We’re no pushovers, but he was—probably still is—an elite fighter. Nobody ever got the best of him until those mages set him up.”
“He won’t betray us. He’s honorable.”
Sasko turned a skeptical expression on the captain. “People change, Captain. Especially after they lose everything.”
“Some things don’t change,” the captain said with certainty.
They stopped in front of a curio shop with bars over the windows and a Closed sign on the door. Above the shop, a balcony led to an apartment with the door open, but there was no obvious way up to it.
The captain knocked and called up, “Mountains of Midnight Mourning.”
Sasko raised her eyebrows. Was that a song? A play? Tezi had never heard of it.
Another sentry disk floated down the street, and she turned her back again, pretending to be interested in a dusty vase sitting in the window display.
A creak came from the balcony, and a cloaked and hooded figure peered down at them, shadows hiding the face.
“Shop’s closed, Captain Ferroki,” the figure said in a dry baritone. “When it’s raining ash, lava, and sulfuric bits of hell, it’s not good for the more delicate artifacts.”
“We came to see the owner, not the wares.”
“The owner’s retired.” The man clunked a metal tool on the balcony railing. The head of a pickaxe? At first, it looked like he was holding it, but Tezi realized he didn’t have a hand on his left side. The pickaxe head was a replacement for it.
“We’re not trying to hire you.”
“As if we’d have the money,” Sasko muttered.
“We just need information, Sorath,” the captain added quietly.
Sorath? Colonel Sorath?
Tezi stared up at the man with more interest. Even before becoming a soldier, she’d heard that name. He’d led one of the most famous mercenary units, a battalion of exceptionally well-trained warriors under a commander who’d been renowned for his tactical brilliance. Even the wizards had reputedly been made nervous by him, aware that he’d found ways to best elite magical troops more than once.
The dry voice turned hard as the man—Sorath?—said, “Don’t use that name. That man is dead.”
“You didn’t tell me what name that man is going by now.”
“Vorzaz.”
“A roamer name?”
“Yes. It means scribe and outcast in my mother’s language.” Some of the hardness left his tone, but his voice was bitter when he added, “Among her people, those two words were synonymous. Education wasn’t valued, not like the power of a sharp blade.” He stepped off the balcony and back inside, closing the door behind him.
“Uh.” Sasko looked around as long seconds passed. “Are we invited in?”
“I don’t know.” The captain tried the door. It wasn’t locked.
Sasko didn’t look like she wanted to follow the captain inside, but the sentry disk floated back in their direction, and Tezi hurried to squeeze past her. That disk was showing up a lot more frequently than typical. Usually, they floated around the cities on established circuits. They only deviated from their routes if they came across something interesting and were sent by their government controllers to investigate.
Tezi hoped this errand wouldn’t take long and that the company would head to a less populated part of the world, somewhere where mages and mage tools were scarce.
After Sasko closed the door, the captain led them through tidy but dusty aisles of books, globes, and trinkets from all over the world. Cobwebs lurked in the corners, and there was no light, other than what came through the barred front window. This had nothing to do with the volcano; the shop had been closed for a long time.
The captain climbed stairs along a back wall that led to a landing, then stepped through an open door.
“Go ahead up,” Sasko told Tezi, drawing her sword and staying by the entrance to the shop where she could watch the street. “I’ll keep an eye out while they talk.”
Maybe she’d also found the disk’s route suspicious.
“Do you think the captain wants me up there?” Tezi was curious about the legendary colonel and what he might say, but it was strange that she’d been invited along. Rookies didn’t go to meetings with captains.
Sasko twitched a shoulder. “You’re her expert on sewing and stuff.”
Which had little to nothing to do with the medallion, but Tezi padded up the stairs and crept into the small apartment. Unlike the shop below, it was free of dust. It was also sparsely furnished and decorated, like a place a traveling merchant stayed in on occasion but didn’t live in year-round. A desk with an open notebook, several sheets of paper, and a few pens was the only suggestion that someone was here working on some project.
“What brings you to the abode of Vorzaz, Captain Ferroki?” Sorath leaned against the wall behind the desk with his arms folded over his chest. He’d removed the cloak and hood, revealing bushy hair with as much gray as black. Even if Tezi hadn’t known his name, the scar running through his eyebrow and down his cheek, the oft-broken nose, and the pickaxe hand replacement would have assured her he’d seen a lot of battles. His button-down shirt was half open, showing a lean, muscular chest despite his age and apparent retirement. He glanced at Tezi. “And who’s the killer?”
“Killer?” Tezi mouthed. Nobody had given her such a ferocious moniker.
“He calls everybody that,” the captain told her.
“Only soldiers,” Sorath said. “And those who look like they could use an ego boost.”
“And anyone else whose name you can’t remember?”
“Really, Captain. I can’t believe you came all the way here to tease me.” He didn’t sound too annoyed.
“That’s true. This is Rookie Tezi, and you’ve met Lieutenant Sasko.” The captain pointed toward the floor.
“Wasn’t she Sergeant Sasko last time?”
“Yes. I lost Red.”
“It happens.” The words might have seemed aloof, but his dark eyes held compassion, and the way he softened his voice made Tezi think he was offering condolences.
“Yeah. It’s a tough life.” The captain swallowed, then unbuttoned her pocket. “As I said, I need information. I can pay a little for it, though work has been scarce for Thorn Company of late. For all mercenaries, I hear. There’s a lot of tension between the kings, but as usual, they haven’t been attacking each other openly.”
“That may change soon.” Sorath looked out the window in the direction of the volcano. “But you already know to be wary of any contracts the wizard kings offer you.”
“Very wary. But they have no reason to waste time and money to set us up. I’m not a military genius leading an infamous unit that makes them uneasy.”
“They don’t have to set you up to kill you. If they can gain something, they’ll happily throw entire companies away like the wrapper around a fig bar.” Sorath flicked his fingers to demonstrate the motion. “And you might be surprised who’s heard of Thorn Company. You’ve been around a while, and you’re known.”
“We’re known because we only take women, not because we’ve won tremendous battles on the field of war.”
“Modesty, Captain? You come up with clever and creative ways to deal with enemies, as I well know.” He smirked and bowed to her, making Tezi wonder if they’d met as enemies in battle before. “The wizards don’t like anyone who’s clever or creative.”
“I’ll keep your warning in mind. Will you examine something for me? We believe it’s an artifact of some value.”
“You should see an archaeologist then. Or a dealer.”
“An archaeologist gave it to me before she was kidnapped by Malek and his mageship.”
“You were on the island?” Sorath didn’t sound surprised about the rest. Maybe everyone had heard by now that Malek had been here.
“Yes.”
“Not to fight him, I reckon.”
“Just to pick up the archaeologists before the volcano erupted.” The captain drew the medallion out of her pocket—she’d wrapped it in a kerchief—and slowly unfolded it. “The magistrate didn’t expect the mageship.”
“Or that there was a priceless artifact buried out there under his nose.” Sorath grunted. “You’ve got to wonder how it got there. The stories tell of it being placed in a beautiful jungle on the side of a lake.”
“You’ve studied it then? That ring?” The captain watched his face.
“If it is what I think it is, it plays a starring role in the history books, a few bards’ songs, and even one of Egarath’s plays.” Sorath held out his hand.
The captain gave him the medallion. His face didn’t brighten with recognition. Instead, he frowned and squinted thoughtfully at it, then pulled out a magelight and thumbed it on for closer examination.
“We scraped off some of the gold plating on the edge.” The captain glanced at Tezi, as if suggesting she’d been a part of that. “It seemed like a recent addition.”
“I see.”
Sorath tilted the medallion and held the light over the blue-black line, then pulled another device out of a desk drawer. It had a handle with a bulbous end and a button to activate it. When he held it up to the key, it emitted a high-pitched screech that made Tezi want to fling her hands over her ears. He moved it away and the volume lowered, but it continued screeching until he tapped the button again.
The captain grimaced. “What is that dreadful thing?”
“It detects magic. It’s saying this has a lot of it.” Sorath removed a loupe and examined the rest of the medallion, spending extra time on the scraped area.
Tezi walked to the balcony door so she could peer out into the street and see if the sentry disk was still around. From the second floor, there was a view past the flat terra-cotta rooftops to the strait and the volcano, the lava flowing in rivers down the side visible despite it being miles away.
“Thank you for helping us, Vorzaz,” the captain said quietly.
“I haven’t done anything yet.”
“You’re on the verge of sharing insightful information. I can tell.”
“By the twinkle in my eyes?”
“You stick your tongue in the corner of your mouth when you’re getting excited about something.”
“I hadn’t realized you knew me and my tongue that well.”
“I know most of the mercenary captains well. It pays to study possible allies.”
“And possible enemies.”
“Yes. That too.” The captain looked toward the window. “I admit that you did surprise me by staying in this area. When I heard you’d survived, I envisioned you hiding out in a remote cave in the wilderness, not living in a city of five hundred thousand.”
“It’s hard to get meal delivery in the wilderness. Besides, this is where I owned property.” Sorath gestured toward the walls. “I was always careful to make sure that few people knew about it. I didn’t think you were among them.”
“We researched you extensively when we thought we might end up fighting against you at Senis Sarr.”
“Including my property holdings? Were you thinking of assassinating me before I could show up to the battlefield?”
“Sasko might have contemplated it. She’s a first-principles thinker.”
“The best kind. Forget that pesky idea of honor among warriors. Assassinate the other side’s leader before breakfast.”
“Sadly, honor can get you killed.”
Sorath lifted his chin, his dark gaze chilling the room as it settled on the captain. Even though he wasn’t looking at Tezi, it made her squirm.
The captain realized her faux pas and lifted an apologetic hand. “I’m sorry, Sorath. I wasn’t thinking of your loss.”
“Vorzaz.” Though his jaw remained clenched, he returned to examining the medallion.
“Was it honor that got them killed?” the captain asked quietly. “I thought betrayal.”
“It was believing they had honor,” he said savagely, his fist tightening around the handle of his tool so tightly that it snapped. He hurled it across the room, and it smashed against the wall.
Tezi jumped, dropping her hand to her sword hilt. The captain didn’t react, merely gazing sadly at Sorath.
He drew a deep breath, spread his hand on the desk, and gripped the edge with his pick as he struggled for calm. “The real crime is that I survived when so few of my men did.”
“Did you ever think of rebuilding the company?”
He scoffed. “No. It’s too dangerous for others to stand at my side. My men died because the kings wanted me dead. Badly. What else could have driven so many of them to work together? The only reason I’m alive now is because they think they got me. And they almost did.” He eyed the pick, then used it to pull aside his half-open shirt, revealing knotted pink scar tissue that ran down his dark skin from collarbone to abdomen. “My healer gave up his own chance to live by using the last of his potions on me. It would have been better if he’d been the one to walk off the battlefield. He had the wisdom and willingness to do good in the world.”
“And you don’t?” the captain asked.
“I’m just a sell-sword, Ferroki. Or I was.”
“You always cared.” Her voice was gentle, and even though they’d spoken of being enemies, or at least pitted against each other before, Tezi had a feeling the captain cared about him. That made her curious about their past. “Isn’t that why you’re writing the book?” the captain added.
“A book that nobody will read.”
“Then why write it?”
“I feel compelled to leave a warning,” Sorath said. “Even if nobody reads it now, maybe someone will someday, and maybe it’ll make a difference.”
“Maybe it will. I hope you survive long enough to finish it.”
“I will. That’s why I’m incognito.”
The captain looked at the top of his head. “You think your fancy new hair and a new name will keep them from learning of your existence?”
“I did until you showed up at my door. The last I heard, most of my own men, those who survived, think I’m dead. How did you know I was alive?”
“I have acquaintances in the major cities who keep me apprised of who’s seen and where.”
“That must mean the fancy hair isn’t as much of a disguise as I thought.” Sorath waved to the bushy curls.
“Not with that face underneath it. I always assumed it was your shaved head that made your scar more pronounced and fearsome, but the hair doesn’t change much. Can you fit that in a helmet?”
“I haven’t tried for a while.”
“Maybe you could keep small daggers in it.”
Sorath tapped the back of his head, then pulled out a spare pen.
“A terrifying weapon,” the captain said.
“A sword can propel one man into action. A pen can propel thousands.”
“Only if you find a publisher.”
“I will.”
As Tezi watched this exchange, she wondered if it could be called flirting. Maybe she made some noise, for Sorath looked over at her.
“You’re recruiting them young, these days, Captain.”
“It’s hard to find veterans who want to sign on for what I can pay right now. And Rookie Tezi’s got grit.”
Tezi stood straight, attempting to look like she deserved that praise.
“Huh.” Sorath held up the medallion. “This is made from dragon steel—the alloy the dragons used for crafting tools. It’s inherently magical and believed to be nearly indestructible. Valuable too. Dragon steel is about as common as fossilized dragon poop.”
Tezi blinked. How rare was that?
“It would be even more valuable if people knew how to melt it down and reshape it, but it’s said that only dragon fire is hot enough for that. It’s mostly the scarcity of dragon-steel artifacts that give them their extreme value. Archaeologists and treasure hunters have been looking for them for ages, but very few have been found. A few artifacts are in museums in the sky cities, none in the museums of mundane humans. Probably not any in private collections down here either.”
“Meaning this one could be sold for a lot?” She sounded wistful.
“Meaning you should get rid of it before someone tries to kill you for it.” Sorath tilted his head. “You said an archaeologist gave it to you?”
“To keep Malek’s people from getting it, yes. I think it’s related to the big ring they took off the island. We think it might be a key.”
“Malek is the last one you want hunting you down,” Sorath said.
“I know. The professor asked me to keep it for her, but… what would you advise? Throw it in the ocean?”
“Yes.”
The captain blinked. “Really?”
Sorath turned the medallion over in his hand. “If this is a key to the fabled dragon portal, it’s one of the most valuable things in the world.”
“I don’t think he knew she had it.”
“He’ll find out. But throwing it in the ocean wouldn’t be enough to keep him from getting it. With his power, he could pluck it off the bottom of even a deep chasm. I’m not sure we want King Uthari to have the key to visiting another world and maybe finding things—or beings—there that could make him more formidable here on Torvil. He’s already one of the strongest kings with one of the largest and wealthiest kingdoms.” Sorath clenched his jaw. “He’s also one of those who banded together to betray me.”
“I’m sorry,” the captain said quietly.
“I’m half-tempted to suggest you sell it to someone who would take it to Zaruk or one of the other kings, if only to keep the key and the lock apart and ensure nobody can use the portal. Maybe they would fight over it, and it would start the wizard war that’s been brewing for centuries.” His lips twisted in a bitter smile, and he handed the medallion back to her. “You’ll have to decide what to do with it.”
“I thank you for the advice.”
“Here’s one last piece: remember that it’s highly magical.” Sorath pointed toward the broken device he’d waved over it. “That means it’ll be easy for their kind to track. There are usually enough magical trinkets in cities that mages might not notice it or be able to pick it out from the crowd, but if you’re out away from people and other magic, it’ll stand out.”
“I’ll keep that in mind,” the captain said. “Do you, by chance, have any darkeye fabric here?”
“I—”
Footsteps thumped on the stairs.
“Captain,” Sasko called in a low voice. “Two platoons of armed men just showed up. They’re not in uniform, but they look like soldiers. They’re blocking this street from both intersections, and a squad is heading this way. There’s a mage with them.”
Tezi pressed her cheek to the window and peered down the street. It was impossible to miss the men, all clean-shaven and short-haired. They did have the mien of soldiers. Several of them were heading toward the shop, accompanied by a mage in a silver-trimmed cloak.
“Is there a back door?” the captain asked.
“You’re looking at it.” Sorath pointed to the balcony overlooking the street—the street the squad was marching up—and closed his book and put it in a deep pocket. The pen went back into his hair, and he grabbed his cloak and weapons, then pulled a dark canister out of a drawer. “I’ll go chat with them. Use this for cover and then go via the balcony.”
“Wait,” the captain blurted as Sorath pressed the canister into her hand. “They’ll recognize you.”
“Maybe, but I’m not the one holding a priceless artifact.” He jogged down the stairs as a booming knock sounded at the front door.
The captain swore, anguish twisting her usually calm face. “I didn’t mean to bring trouble to his doorstep.”
“They could be here for him, not us,” Sasko pointed out.
“I doubt it.”
Tezi drew her pistol, though they couldn’t fight so many. Could Sorath convince them that the medallion wasn’t here? Or had that mage already sensed it?
Downstairs, wood splintered, and something crashed to the floor. “Where is it?” a man bellowed. “We know they sold it to you, Vorzaz.”
Black-powder weapons fired, magelocks thwomped, and more crashes sounded. The squad in the street flowed into the curio shop, and more soldiers advanced from the intersections.
“They’re attacking him. We have to help.” The captain charged for the stairs, and Tezi started after her.
But Sasko planted herself in the captain’s path, stopping her with raised hands. “He’s buying time for us. For you, so you can get out of here with that thing.” She pointed at the medallion.
“That’s not his job. It’s better to let them have it than for him to be killed.” The captain tried to push past her, but Sasko didn’t move. “You know I can best you, Lieutenant. Get out of my way.”
“No. What did he give you? A smoke bomb?”
More weapons fired downstairs. Something heavy crashed to the floor.
“Check up there!” someone yelled.
“I can’t. He’s—” A scream of pain cut off the man.
“Yes,” the captain whispered.
She wrenched her gaze from the stairs and ran to the balcony. She pulled the tab and tossed the canister into the street as the platoons came together.
Smoke as thick and black as that wafting from the volcano spewed into the street. Within seconds, the men disappeared behind the dark cloud.
“Up,” the captain whispered, the words barely audible over the cacophony of chaos coming from below.
She swept past Tezi and climbed the railing to pull herself onto the roof. Sasko waved for Tezi to go next.
Wrinkling her nose at the smoke, Tezi holstered her firearm and scrambled up to balance on the narrow railing. The captain leaped up and grabbed an overhang on the roof, pulling herself up with acrobatic ease.
With Sasko right behind her and shouts of, “Up there!” Tezi couldn’t hesitate to follow. She jumped, grabbed the gutter, and tried to replicate the captain’s feat. But the overhang stuck out far enough that there was no support for her legs, nothing to push off from. She hung, struggling to lift her body weight solely with her arms.
Swords clashed on the rooftop above. Tezi cursed and tried again to pull herself up. Sasko climbed onto the railing and gave her a boost. Tezi managed to hook one boot over the gutter. A magelock fired nearby, and terra-cotta tiles on the roof across the street blew away.
In a saner moment, Tezi might have climbed back down and turned herself in, but the soldiers below had figured out where they were. One of them fired toward her, and the blue blast of magic slammed into the gutter inches from her hand. Fear gave her strength, and she hauled herself up, rolling onto the rooftop but bumping into something. She yanked out her pistol.
Two soldiers lay unmoving on the flat roof as the captain faced off against two more. They’d closed to grappling range, and daggers glinted as they tried to flank her. With a clear view of the one on the left, Tezi didn’t hesitate to shoot.
The magelock buzzed in her hand as it fired, the blue charge hurtling away and slamming into the soldier’s side. He tumbled backward, leaving the captain to focus on the last one. With her in the way, Tezi couldn’t line up another shot, but it didn’t matter. The captain blocked his punches, then barreled into him, hooking an upper cut into his abdomen, then head-butting him when he pitched forward. When he stumbled back, she spun a side kick into his gut.
His weapon tumbled away, and she kicked it and three others off the roof.
“You didn’t leave any for me, Captain?” Sasko had joined them, staying in a low crouch—the men in the street knew exactly where they were and kept firing, blowing away the eaves and gutters.
“Go upstairs!” someone yelled. “They’re up there!”
A boom came from inside the curio shop. A bomb?
The captain waved for Tezi and Sasko to follow her, then ran and climbed to the roof of a three-story building abutting the curio shop. Fortunately, there weren’t any more soldiers waiting up there. Their group sprinted across it to the next building and crossed three more rooftops before they had to spring across an eight-foot alley to the next set of buildings.
Tezi might have hesitated at the jump, but the soldiers who’d survived that explosion were climbing from the balcony to the rooftop of the curio shop. Only the varying heights of the buildings kept their trio from being targeted, but shouts promised the men were giving chase.
Fear and elation mingled in Tezi’s chest as she made the jump. Thankfully, the building was lower, and her momentum got her across the gap. The captain and Sasko waited to make sure she made it, then sprinted off again.
After another block, their group had to descend, but the captain paused and looked back. Smoke wafted from the roof of the curio shop, more than the canister they’d thrown could have accounted for.
Regret darkened her eyes, but she didn’t say anything. She jerked her head for Tezi and Sasko to follow, and they skimmed down the side of the building and ran off into the city. Hopefully, there would be time to get out of the city. Tezi worried that if a mage had tracked them to the curio shop, he could track them back to the docks and the rest of the company.
Chapter 11
11
“Mother!” Jak forgot that he was too old for hugs and hugged her when she descended into the cell again. “Are you all right?”
“For now.” She hugged him back. “But the ship may be about to be—”
Something jolted the vessel, tilting the deck and sending them tumbling against the wall.
“—attacked,” she finished grimly.
“By who?”
“Another mageship. I only saw it in the distance. I don’t know which king sent it. We should be back over Uthari’s dominion by now. You wouldn’t think anyone would dare attack his ship in his kingdom.”
Jak closed his eyes and envisioned a map of the Forked Sea, with the continent of Bakura and its Dragon Perch Islands to the east and his homeland of Agorval to the west. King Uthari claimed most of Agorval for his kingdom—including Jak’s home city of Sprungtown on the other side of the Sawtooth Mountains—but the boundaries extended well out over the sea. Assuming the mageships flew as fast as Jak believed they did, they should be most of the way across the water and into Uthari’s territory by now.
“Well, the Dragon Perch Islands are in Zaruk’s kingdom,” Jak said. “He might have found out we located the artifact. And want it back.”
Another jolt rocked the ship. Jak put out a hand, thinking to steady his mother, but she’d already sat cross-legged on the deck and pulled out a tin he didn’t recognize and a bar of something. In the shadows, he couldn’t tell what. He hoped it was food since the guards hadn’t deigned to deliver anything but a jug of water to their cell.
“Are you making snacks? Because my stomach has been growling. Our captors are rudely inadequate when it comes to prisoner care.”
“I agree, but it might be a while. We’re getting out of here.”
“Oh? What are you making? A bomb?”
“Nothing so exciting. And this may not be the best time to try to employ this, but…” Mother looked up at the grate, with the guard’s boots still in sight, and lowered her voice. “I’m hoping this attack proves tumultuous and all hands are called upon to help defend the ship.”
Jak didn’t hear anything like an alarm gong, but distant clangs sounded, followed by shouted orders. He couldn’t tell if Malek, Tonovan, or some underling was giving them. Thuds reverberated from above—soldiers running down the corridor. The boots above their grate disappeared from sight.
“See if you can make a lasso or some kind of loop on a string,” Mother said as she mixed ingredients in the shadows.
String? Where was he supposed to find string? And what did she have in mind? For that matter, what was she making? The air smelled of soap and crushed flower petals, not exactly odors that he associated with explosives.
“How long of a string?” Jak bent over and poked his bootlaces, mentally guessing at their length.
“Several feet. We’ll need to be able to hook it over that lever on the wall… while hanging from the grate.”
“You’re more athletic than I realized.”
“I’m hoping you’re the athletic one.”
“When you said we, I thought we’d be magically spider-walking up the wall together.”
“I’ll try, but I may not be strong enough. Tighten the laces on your boots.”
“Uh.” He’d been about to make her lasso out of his laces, but it sounded like he would need them for climbing up the wall—somehow. “Right.”
He carefully set aside his hat and the drawing tools in his pockets, then tugged his shirt over his head. Though the rocking deck made it a challenge, he tore the shirt into even strips to tie together. There weren’t explosions and cannonballs, as there would have been in a sea battle among terrene humans, but something was striking the ship.
If this flying boat took enough damage, would it crash? Jak had no idea how high they were, but he was positive they would die if they plummeted down from their elevation, whether they hit land or water.
“You’ve made a lasso?” Mother asked after a few minutes.
“A rope with a loop on the end.” Jak held up the strips of fabric he’d tied together to make a good ten feet of rope, maybe more. He hoped it would be strong enough for what they needed. He couldn’t imagine it supporting his weight if they tried to climb up it, nor would there be any way to hook it over the grate. “A lasso would have been ambitious to make out of my shirt.”
“Tie something in the middle of the loop that can act as weight.”
“You act as if I have a supply cabinet in the corner over here.”
“I know you’ve got a compass and caliper in your pockets.”
“You want me to hurl my map-making tools against the wall?”
“To facilitate our escape from torture and death? Yes, I do.”
“I’m already half-naked,” he grumbled but complied, telling himself the caliper was sturdy and that he could get it back if this worked. “I hope there are at least cute girls up there who’ll admire me running around shirtless.”
“The cute girls are busy,” Mother said, her voice without humor.
That made him wonder what had happened when she’d been questioned.
“Give me your hands and boots,” his mother said before he could decide if he wanted to ask. “I’ve made a compound that will stick you to the wall. Also the rope and the grate. Be careful.
“You made glue?” Jak rubbed his fingers together. “You made really strong glue?”
“Hopefully. I’ve only made molds with yargo before, but I cut back on the amount of water I put in, and it feels quite sticky.”
“Supporting-our-body-weight sticky?” He jammed his tools back into his trouser pockets and put his hat back on.
“The natives of Gora Gorak use yargo glue to help them climb coconut trees.”
“The pygmies of Gora Gorak? Aren’t they all four feet tall and eighty pounds?”
“Some are five feet tall and ninety pounds.”
“That’s a huge difference.”
“It’s good that we haven’t eaten for a while. Hands and boots, please.”
“Isn’t it a bad idea to make a dangerous climb when you’re famished?”
“We can do it,” she said with grim determination.
Jak hoped he was athletic enough—acrobatic enough—to pull this off. He looped his rope around his shoulders a few times as she slathered her glue on the bottoms of his boots. After that, she smeared cold, moist, and extremely sticky and gritty stuff over his palms and fingertips.
“I’ll go first to test it, since I’m lighter.” As she took a step, a ripping sound came from the deck.
Jak didn’t understand it until he stood up and tried to move. His boot stuck, and it took effort to pull it free. Mother started up the wall like a spider.
“It’s working for me.” She paused a few feet up. “How about you?”
“Uh.” More soft rips came from his boots as he moved to the wall, then planted as much of the sole as he could on it and still climb effectively. The first time he pulled his hand free, he grunted in pain. It was strong glue. And fast-acting. “There’s not going to be any skin left on my fingertips by the time we get up there.”
“Use your palms more if you can.”
“Are they less in need of skin?”
“You don’t need them for drawing.”
“Thoughtful, Mother. Thanks.”
“Just try to move quickly, so it forms only a partial bond. It’s a strong adhesive.”
“No kidding.” It still ripped the skin off his fingertips, but he found he could climb quickly with the stuff on his boots supporting his weight, and he soon passed his mother.
Near the top, the gluey substance started to wear off—he’d left a lot of it on the wall along with his skin—but he managed to lunge up and grip the grate with his left hand. Mother’s advice not to do that rang in his mind, but until he managed to throw the loop and pull the lever, it wouldn’t matter.
He wiped his right hand on his trousers, almost tearing the cloth, then on the metal grate, rubbing off as much of the substance as he could, then maneuvered the rope off his shoulders. The ship shook, and he would have lost his grip if not for the glue. Fortunately, their guard hadn’t returned to see any of this.
Jak pulled himself up until his chin was to the grate, hooked his elbow over one of the bars, and tried to figure out how he was going to throw his loop up and hook the lever. It protruded from the wall only three feet above the deck, but this was one of the most awkward positions he’d been in in his life.
His first attempt to throw the crude rope was a failure since it stuck to his hand and barely went anywhere. “I don’t suppose you made something to dissolve this stuff,” he muttered, one boot still stuck to the wall and the other dangling free.
“The lubricant might help.”
“Let’s try it.” Jak hadn’t expected a response and didn’t want to know why she had that, but he lowered his hand.
Whether it helped was debatable, but by hooking both elbows over bars, he managed to maneuver better. With his next throw, the caliper clanked against the wall near the lever.
“Hope they’re too busy with their battle now to hear that,” he muttered and tried again.
By the fifth throw, his arms were going numb from holding his body weight up by his elbows, but his loop hooked the lever.
“There we go,” he breathed, then almost let go when a shout came from the entrance to their corridor.
He froze, envisioning punishment for being caught trying to escape. A uniformed man ran past, but he didn’t glance down the corridor.
Jak licked his lips and pulled on the rope.
“Wait,” his mother whispered. “The grate will slide into the deck. Come set yourself back on the wall before you pull.”
“That will make it harder to pull. I’ve got to fully tug the lever down before the loop falls off.” Jak maneuvered his arms off the bars anyway. He didn’t know if the grate would whip sideways into the deck hard enough to injure him, but he needed his arms for drawing, so he wouldn’t risk it.
Since he’d wiped off some of the glue, he slipped several times before managing to plant himself next to his mother on the wall. More than once, she reached out to press him against it to make sure he didn’t fall, but that only made her slip.
He tugged on the loop carefully, and the lever inched downward. As it went from pointing upward to downward, the caliper inched toward the end, threatening to slip off. Jak gave a hard jerk. It slid off, but the lever thunked into place at the same time, triggering the grate.
Alarmingly loud clanks sounded as the metal bars slid into the deck. Jak yanked his rope through, not wanting it to get cut in half, but the caliper caught. He snatched it just before it would have hit the side and either broken or jammed the grate.
The motion dislodged one of his boots, and his foot skidded down the wall. Again, his mother grabbed him. She must have had her feet and other hand firmly affixed this time, for she didn’t slide down.
“You go up first,” she whispered.
Jak lunged up and caught the lip of the opening with both hands. He poked his head out, making sure no soldiers were peering down the corridor, then swung his legs up and rolled onto the solid deck. More skin ripped off as his hands pulled away, and the raw pain had him silently cursing Malek and all the mages on the ship.
Yellow and orange lights flashed beyond the corridor. Was there fighting going on inside the hold? If so, how would they slip past?
Another jolt shook the deck. A startled gasp came from his mother. Jak scrambled back to the edge, worried she’d fallen.
But she was still planted on the wall with the tenacity of a tarantula.
“Give me your hand.” Jak lowered his own, blotches of blood oozing from his palms.
She clasped it, and he pulled her up. Once they crouched in the corridor, they separated their hands with the painful ripping of skin.
“I’m not going to be able to recommend your new product to my cartography club,” Jak whispered, shaking his raw palms.
“I’ll work on refining it in the future.” His mother tried ineffectively to wipe the glue off her own hands, then flipped the lever with her knuckles, so the grate closed.
It was unlikely that would keep the mages from realizing they had escaped, but it wouldn’t be obvious from a glance. Mother ran down the corridor, peering through other closed grates as she searched for Darv. Jak coiled his rope and followed her, a cool breeze licking at the bare skin of his chest.
His full pockets clanked as he moved. His mother clinked almost as much. If stealth was required at any point in this escape, they would both be in trouble.
But the shouts were farther away now, coming from outside on the mageship’s main deck, so he hoped the crew was busy.
“Are there lifeboats?” he whispered.
“Yes.” His mother stopped at the last grate in the corridor and peered in. “Up on the main deck.”
“Up on the main deck where all the fighting is going on?”
“Likely so. Darv?” she called down.
“Jadora?” came his weak reply.
“Yes. Are you all right?” She pushed the lever, and his grate slid open, the clanks again making Jak wince at their noise. All it would take was one of those soldiers running past to hear that.
“I would be better up there than down here,” Darv called up. “Or even more ideal, off this flying ship and down on solid land. Perhaps back at the university in my little house.”
“We’d all like that.” Mother waved for Jak to lower his rope.
“I don’t know if it’ll be long enough.” He was positive it wouldn’t reach all the way to the bottom, twenty feet below, but if Darv could reach up six or seven feet, and Jak could lower it a couple of feet, maybe…
“We’ll add more ripped clothing to it if we have to.” Mother glanced around, probably hoping the mages had left a coil of rope handily hanging next to the cells.
But if they could lower and lift prisoners with magic, why bother? Jak didn’t see anything useful.
“Try to reach this, Professor,” he called down, dropping to his stomach so he could lower it further. “There’s a caliper on the end.”
He said that by way of warning, so Darv wouldn’t clunk his head on it, but he received a dry response. “Is that recommended mountaineering equipment these days?”
“Yeah, it’s the new trend.”
“I can’t reach it.”
Jak scooted closer to the edge, lowering his arm even farther. His mother sank down on his legs, adding her weight so he wouldn’t fall in.
“How about now?” Jak almost suggested that Mother toss some of her glue down, but he doubted the old professor was strong enough to pull himself up a wall.
“It’s hard to see in the shadows. Hang on.” Darv patted around.
Jak lay the rope against the wall so it would be easier to find, but the ship jolted again. For the first time, a blast came from somewhere under them, striking the bottom of the hull. An ominous snap emanated through the deck under his bare chest.
“Ouch.” Darv grunted. “Found it.”
Darv put his weight on the rope, and Jak grimaced at the pull on his shoulder. He hoped he and his mother could lift the professor. Darv was slender and light for a man, but Jak’s position made it awkward. He squirmed backward, his mother helping him by grabbing his belt and applying a counterweight. They shifted and grunted while they found their feet and got into a better position. At least the leftover tacky glue on their hands helped them keep a grip on the rope.
Grunts and protests came from Darv as they hefted him slowly up, his body thudding against the wall. Jak kept glancing back, half-expecting to find Malek standing there with his arms folded over his chest.
Another blast struck the ship from below, and a second later, something hammered it from above. Jak’s stomach lurched as the deck dropped several inches under their feet, momentarily susceptible to gravity and physics.
“I think they’re too busy to worry about us right now,” his mother whispered. “There must be two ships out there. At least.”
“You realize that if we manage to get to a lifeboat and use it,” Jak said, “we’ll be a target for their enemies, right?”
“Yes. We’ll hide out, hope they defeat their enemies, then try to slip away while they’re licking their wounds and before they think to check on us.” Mother grimaced as one of the shredded pieces of shirt tore and Darv slipped back down a few inches.
A startled gasp came from his cell.
“Sorry, Darv.” Jak winced, afraid he would break a few bones—or worse—if he fell back to the bottom. When he’d been building his rope, he hadn’t considered pulling someone up with it. He should have. They couldn’t leave Darv here while they escaped.
“This rope is feeble and of poor quality,” Darv said, his voice near the top. Just a little farther, and they would have him.
“That’s because it’s made from my clothes.”
Darv’s knuckles came into view, white as they gripped the rope for dear life. “Perhaps you should purchase a higher quality wardrobe.”
“You’ll have to take that up with my mother. I’m still an impoverished student.”
“Did I not once see you selling caricatures of the faculty in the square for coin?”
Jak nodded for his mother to help Darv up while he kept the rope taut. “Yes, but the pay was poor, and I didn’t find the work satisfying.”
“I saw the bulbous-nosed substantial-foreheaded version of the dean that you did. That wasn’t satisfying?”
With Mother’s help, Darv grabbed the lip and pulled himself up.
“Not as satisfying as mapping new territories, no. And I almost got suspended when the dean saw that.”
“It wasn’t a commissioned piece?” Arms shaking, Darv pushed himself to his feet.
“Oh, it was commissioned. But not by him.” Jak coiled his rope in case he needed it again.
“Maybe we should save the career discussion for later,” Mother murmured, throwing the lever to close the grate.
She waved for them to follow her to the entrance of their corridor, then paused to peer out. Between the distant shouts of the crew and the ominous creaks and snaps from the framework of the ship, Jak doubted anyone would hear them, but he fell silent as he and Darv trailed after her.
As they looked out into the cavernous hold with its floating platforms and maze of railing-free staircases, the biggest blow yet struck the ship. The force pitched them against the wall and into each other. Jak grabbed Darv to keep him from falling to the deck.
A thunderous snap came from the bottom of the hold, and a fissure opened up in the hull under the octopus-orb that powered the ship. Cold wind rushed in through the inches-wide gap, though nothing but dark sky was visible through it.
Jak envisioned it widening and the orb tumbling out through the hole, all of its glowing tentacles slithering out after it. That would leave the ship without the magic that powered it—and kept it in the air.
Two white-uniformed mages ran in from another corridor. Mother backed up, pushing Jak and Darv behind her. Thanks to the light that emanated from most of the walls, there were no shadows to hide in.
But the mages focused on the split in the hull. They descended to a platform directly over it, their gazes downward, their legs spread to brace themselves against sways and jolts from the ship. It was like being on a sea vessel sailing through a storm.
Pale violet light flashed outside the hole, and Jak glimpsed what might have been the hull of another mageship in the distance. How many enemies were out there? Would the Star Flyer be captured, so the enemies could board and take the artifact? Or would it be completely destroyed, the portal allowed to crash into the sea with the rest of the vessel?
“They’re not looking this way,” Mother whispered and pointed at the hole in the hull. Under the mages’ power, it was mending itself together. She shifted her finger toward the nearest set of stairs that led upward.
Jak didn’t think moving was a good idea—they would be in plain sight if the mages glanced up—but they also couldn’t risk loitering in the corridor until a better moment came. A better moment might never come.
Mother crept out, leading the way across the platform and to the stairs. They’d climbed only a few steps, arms spread for balance since there were no railings, when yellow light—or lightning?—flashed outside of the shrinking hole, and raw magical power wrapped around their ship. The air buzzed against Jak’s exposed skin and filled his ears like a mosquito’s whine. The magical lights inside the hold went out, and the entire ship trembled.
Outside, the yellow light kept flashing, streaks of lightning visible through the hole. It was as if branches of it had wrapped around the entire ship and imprisoned them.
Jak dropped to his knees, gripping the edges of the stairs, afraid he would fall in the dark.
“Where are our shields?” one of the repair mages demanded.
“There are three other ships out there,” his partner said. “If not for Malek, we wouldn’t have lasted this long.”
“The general’s supposed to be a master at defenses.”
“Just shut your mouth, be glad we’re engineers, and help me fix this. Then we’ve got to get the lights back on and check on the prisoners.”
Uh, no need to check on the prisoners. Really.
Mother reached back, groping in the dark to find Jak’s shoulder. “Keep climbing,” she breathed, her words barely audible.
He patted her hand to let her know he’d heard and reached back, giving the same message to Darv.
In the dark, they crawled up the stairs on their hands and knees. Twenty feet below them, the heads of the mages were visible every time the lightning flashed.
Above, the hatch they were angling for banged open, startling Jak. Where were they supposed to go if someone ran down the steps?
Lightning flashed in the starry sky beyond the hatch, but nobody appeared. Maybe the wind or an attack had knocked it open?
His mother must have thought so, for she kept climbing. The hatch banged back shut, but then the ship jerked, and it opened again. Jak hurried after his mother, and they didn’t slow until they reached the hatchway.
The first thing Jak saw made him gape. The portal wasn’t flat on the deck anymore. It floated several feet above, tilted as if some invisible sky giant were trying to grab it from one side and lift it off the ship.
Eight red-uniformed mages stood in a ring around the artifact, their arms lifted as they focused on it. On keeping whoever was trying to lift it away from doing so.
Another mageship floated in the air above and to the side of their vessel. Illumination on its deck highlighted numerous mages standing at the railing, mages in green uniforms. Queen Vorsha’s people? She was the only one of the kingdom rulers who favored green. But why would she be involved? He’d expected Zaruk’s people, assuming he’d objected to the artifact being taken from his kingdom.
More than ten of the green-uniformed mages were lined up along the railing, playing magical tug-of-war with the red-clad mages on the deck. The air crackled with energy, buzzing unpleasantly along Jak’s nerves.
Smoke wafted from the enemy ship, and a blast of blue energy shot from one of the Star Flyer’s magical artillery weapons. It slammed into Vorsha’s ship. That didn’t keep more mages from appearing at the railing. They threw down ropes with mundane grappling hooks, guiding them with magic toward the portal. A few hooks missed their target, but several found purchase.
More red-uniformed mage defenders ran into view on the deck. Jak exchanged looks with his mother and Darv, wondering how they were going to sneak out without being noticed.
The defenders hurled fireballs up at the ropes, but they weren’t as mundane as Jak had believed. The ropes and hooks glowed slightly as they repelled the fiery blasts.
A screech of metal and flash of white light came from the other side of the portal, up on the forecastle. Malek came into view, battling four green-uniformed mage-warriors who were trying to surround him.
His sword and main-gauche, the blades a startling blue, glowed white, leaving streaks in the night air as he spun and slashed, somehow keeping his opponents from getting behind him. He was so fast that he and the blades were a blur. Jak barely saw the kick that sent one of his attackers sailing over the railing to bounce off the shark figurehead and tumble out of sight. Faint screams floated up as the mage plummeted to his death.
The other mage-warriors launched attacks at Malek, trying to catch him before he turned his focus back to them, but whatever magic struck him barely stirred his hair. He sprang at two enemies, using both weapons offensively, knocking one foe’s sword aside so he could stab him in the gut with the main-gauche. At the same time, he defended against an overhead blow from the other, swords clashing as they met. Malek slammed a side kick into his attacker’s groin, sending him tumbling back, almost crashing into one of his allies. Malek whirled, bringing his long blade to bear on the man he’d stabbed, and finished him off with a powerful blow that cleaved off his head. It bounced across the deck, tumbled under the railing, and disappeared over the side. The body collapsed, leaving two intruders to face Malek.
They backed away while trading uncertain glances with each other. One yelled up to his ship, to a man aiming a magical harpoon launcher down at the forecastle. Without looking up, Malek pointed his main-gauche in that direction. The energy he hurled wasn’t visible, but the harpoon launcher—and the person manning it—exploded into a thousand pieces.
Jak almost swore out loud, mesmerized by the fight. His mother gripped his shoulder, tugging and pointing at one of the lifeboats, and he forced himself to look away. Darv had already scooted out from behind him and was creeping along the wall toward the lifeboat.
Though Jak worried they would never reach it without being noticed, he hurried after Darv, with his mother right behind. The lifeboat was mounted on a wooden lift near the railing. Jak didn’t see any levers or a way to launch it. What if magic was required?
Wind gusted across the deck, almost knocking his hat from his head. Jak jammed it down. He’d made it this far without losing it; he wouldn’t lose it now.
As they rounded the back of one of the lifeboats, hoping to hide between it and the railing, they almost crashed into a soldier stationed there, the man firing a magelock at the enemies trying to steal the artifact. Mother halted before colliding with him, but he spotted her and spun. As he opened his mouth to yell an alarm, she threw some powder in his face. Startled, he staggered back, but only for a second before he used his power to knock Mother back.
Jak sprang at the soldier, tackling him to the deck. He grabbed his uniform and punched him in the gut, hoping to distract him from using his magic. Snot and tears flowed from the soldier’s face—courtesy of Mother’s powder—but he growled and thrust upward, power slamming into Jak. Somehow, he managed to keep his grip on the man, so they flew upward several feet together.
The lifeboat kept them from being visible to the mages around the artifact—who were hopefully too focused to notice the fight anyway—and Jak slammed his forehead into the soldier’s face as they descended. They landed with a grunt, with Jak on top, his fingers still tangled in the soldier’s uniform. The man’s head clunked hard against the deck. Desperate to keep him from shouting out, Jak knocked his head back again and again. It kept the soldier from using magic, and finally, even as the roar of battle continued around them, he slumped unconscious.
“I can’t believe they didn’t take your powders,” Jak panted, letting the soldier go.
“From my experience with mages, they could have locked us in their fully-stocked armory and would have still believed we couldn’t escape or harm them.” Mother rose to her feet, peering over the side of the lifeboat.
Darv stared up at the enemy mageship, gaping as Jak had earlier. Malek had finished his battle on the forecastle and was climbing up one of the ropes toward the higher vessel. The mages at the railing shouted and attacked him with weapons and their own raw power, but he had conjured an invisible bubble around himself, and everything they threw at him bounced off.
As Malek continued his inexorable ascent, one of the mages leaned over the railing with a glowing knife, intending to cut the rope he was climbing. Malek sent a baleful look at him, and before the mage could touch the blade to it, an invisible grip plucked him from the deck and hurled him into the empty sky beside the ship. He plummeted out of sight. A second and a third mage flew overboard before their teammates got some magical shielding of their own up to thwart Malek’s grabs. Meanwhile, he kept climbing.
“Get them, Malek!” came a call from the aftercastle.
General Tonovan stood there among soldiers manning magical cannons. Blood flowed from a gash on his face, but his eyes gleamed with inhuman power and determination. He raised his arms, and glittering white energy flowed from his hands. It wrapped around the entire ship, creating a sparkling cocoon around them—a shield?
This was nothing like the rare glimpses of magic Jak had seen in his life, and he had no idea what their capabilities were or what they could create.
“Look.” Darv pointed over the railing that they would have to figure out how to launch the lifeboat over.
Two other mageships were flying down there, but their lights had gone dark, save for fires burning on the decks and hulls. Nobody on board seemed to be attacking. Huge holes had been blasted in their sides, and if they’d been sailing vessels, they would have been sinking. As it was, one listed gradually downward. Jak spotted charred bodies on the deck.
“Maybe we can fly out that way,” Darv added. “Use the destroyed ships for cover and slip away.”
“First, we need to get this boat off the deck without being noticed.” Jak pulled himself over the railing of the escape craft.
His mother was already inside the navigation cabin, staying low so nobody would see her through the windows. On the Star Flyer’s deck, the portal lay flat again. The mages on the other ship were now busy dealing with Malek. He’d reached the top of the climb and vaulted over their railing, battling those who had been trying to steal the artifact. Fortunately, the Star Flyer’s defenders were riveted to the scene up there—Malek’s swords were flashing around again as he tore into the enemy troops—and weren’t looking at the lifeboat. Jak began to believe they might actually escape.
He leaned over to help up Darv. As soon as they were all aboard, he joined his mother in the navigation cabin.
“This looks like it frees us from the clamp.” She pointed at a lever labeled in a language Jak couldn’t read. “The wheel is for steering. What lifts it up and down?”
“Uh, magic?”
“You’re very helpful.”
“I haven’t taken the magical helmsman class at school yet. Maybe they’ll offer it in the spring.”
“Better get on the wait list. Maybe this one.” Mother rested her hand on another lever, this one with a single symbol labeling it. “It says altitude.”
“Sounds reasonable.”
Some of the light outside diminished, and Jak risked peering out one of the windows. The sparkly shield around the mageship had disappeared. General Tonovan had also disappeared from the top of the aftercastle. Uh oh.
Mother threw one of the levers. A clunk reverberated through the lifeboat. She grimaced at the noise. Jak pulled his head down. If one of the mages had heard that…
“He’s coming back,” Darv whispered through the hatchway. He knelt on the deck outside of the navigation cabin, staring upward.
Malek stood on the railing of the enemy ship, as if it were solid ground instead of a narrow piece of wood, the entire craft in flames behind him. The wind whipped at his jacket, and his blades glowed as he surveyed the Star Flyer and the ships that had dared assault it. If there was anyone left to attack him, Malek clearly wasn’t worried about it.
Jak had the eerie feeling of being looked down upon by a god and for the first time understood why humans in primitive societies—and some in his own city—worshipped the mages and wizards as if they were gods. How would mankind—mundane non-magic-wielding mankind—ever find a way out from under their power?
“I wish we’d gotten up here a minute earlier,” Mother whispered, her hand on the altitude lever. “Now we’ll have to wait until Malek comes back and they all—hopefully—go inside to help with repairs.”
“I doubt the general or Malek do anything so piddling as filling cracks and painting char marks,” Jak muttered, also wondering how they would manage to slip out now.
“Maybe they’ll be tired after battle and need a nap.”
That seemed vaguely plausible. Jak had read that drawing upon one’s magic was draining. Maybe Malek would pass out as soon as he got back. It had been a big battle, after all. Jak imagined mages plopped down all over the ship, snoring heartily.
Malek crouched and sprang, and Jak caught himself gaping again. That other ship was fifty or sixty feet above theirs.
Malek dropped down at the speed of gravity, not slowing himself even if it was in his power to do so, and landed on the deck in a deep crouch. Jak sank lower under the window. What kind of human being could do that without breaking his legs? Maybe the stories about the zidarr were true, that they weren’t fully human anymore, that magic infused their bodies, flowing through their veins where blood had once been.
A startled squawk came from Darv. Jak whirled and lifted a hand, about to hiss at him to stay quiet, but he let his hand fall.
Malek had sprung into the lifeboat and stood next to Darv, gazing down at him and then looking into navigation at Jak and his mother. She slumped, letting her hand fall from the lever. Malek had sheathed his fearsome weapons, but that didn’t make him look any less dangerous.
“This is not where I left you,” he stated, his tone dry. He didn’t sound tired or even out of breath, and Jak judged the chances of him tipping over and falling asleep were microscopic.
Ignoring Darv, Malek strode toward them. Mother stood up, no longer worrying about hiding. In case it made a difference, Jak stood at her shoulder. They would face their fate together.
“The journal wasn’t as comprehensive as I’d hoped. We’ll need your assistance in getting the portal operational.” Malek lifted a hand, and the flaps over Mother’s pockets rose. Tins, vials, a bar of soap, and small field tools floated out, settling onto a console beside him.
Mother’s fingers twitched, as if she meant to snatch them back, but Malek’s cool gaze kept her from trying.
“And you haven’t yet told me where the key is.” Malek looked at Jak, then upward to the spot on his hat where his gold medallion had once been. “But you will,” he finished softly.
General Tonovan was waiting on deck. Jak closed his eyes. All this had been for nothing.
Chapter 12
12
As Jadora gazed stonily forward, the wind whipped at strands of hair that had slipped free from her braid. She was back where she’d been two hours ago, standing on the deck beside the portal, beside the keyhole in the portal, but now Jak and Darv were with her, and she worried she’d only made things worse. Darv slumped against the artifact, looking miserable.
Before, Malek had only been questioning her, and he’d been alone while Tonovan was in his pleasure palace being serviced. Now, they were both out here glowering at her. No, that wasn’t quite right. Tonovan was glowering—he’d curled an indignant lip and snatched back his soap when Malek had brought her stash out and set it on the portal—but Malek didn’t even seem annoyed that they’d tried to escape.
Tonovan, dark bags under his eyes and the side of his face coated with drying blood, appeared exhausted from his battle. Other than a couple of cuts to his jacket and a nick on the back of his hand, Malek looked little different than he had an hour ago. He gazed thoughtfully at Jadora as Tonovan demanded to know how they’d gotten out. She didn’t appreciate the scrutiny from either of them.
“It must have been a malfunction with your magic,” Jak replied when Jadora didn’t. She was trying to think of how she could avoid babbling everything about the medallion—and who had it—as soon as they applied force. “The grates just sprang open,” he added.
“The grates aren’t magical,” Tonovan snapped.
“Really? That’s fascinating.” Jak looked at Jadora and Darv. “Isn’t it fascinating?”
“Fascinating,” Darv murmured, though his heart wasn’t in the sarcasm or defiance or whatever Jak was trying. He looked like he wanted to disappear.
Jadora wished she could make him disappear. Both of them. Back to the university or someplace else safe.
“How did you climb out after the grates sprang open?” Tonovan asked.
Jadora opened her mouth to answer, but Jak spoke first.
“We’re very good climbers. Archaeologists get all sorts of practice climbing at dig sites. The interesting things are always hidden down latrine shafts.”
Neither Tonovan nor Malek appeared to appreciate his humor.
Jadora leaned her shoulder against his. “Why don’t you let me answer the questions?”
“Sure. You are the expert in latrine shafts.” He forced a quick smile.
She could tell he was nervous and gripped his arm, trying to reassure him, though she doubted she had that power.
“Please put my colleagues back in their cells.” Jadora addressed Malek instead of Tonovan, judging him the more reasonable of the two. “They know less than I do.”
“They don’t know how they climbed out of their own cells?” Malek asked.
“I assume there are other more pressing questions you have in mind.” Not that she wanted to talk about the medallion, but if she implied she would be more open about it if they left Jak and Darv alone…
Malek stepped closer to her, startling her and making her step back. She bumped against the unyielding metal of the portal and was stuck. She remembered the eerie feeling of having her pocket flaps magically unfastened and her belongings floated out of them. He reached for her wrist, not her pockets, though he held her gaze with his.
“What are you doing?” Jak bristled and stepped closer but halted as if he’d run into a wall. A magical wall.
Jadora started to jerk her arm back, but there was nowhere for her to go, no way to fight these people. Malek gripped her wrist, firmly but not painfully, and turned her palm upward. He eyed her raw skin and rubbed his thumb on the remains of the crusted glue that she’d made. A tingle of fear ran through her, but he did nothing else.
“Interesting.” Malek released her and stepped toward the keyhole, using his magic to force Jak to step out of the way.
“What is?” Tonovan asked.
But Malek didn’t share his guess about how they’d escaped. He rested a hand on the artifact, next to the small circular hole, and looked at Tonovan. “This is. I believe it’s a keyhole and that the portal won’t activate without the key.”
“Do they have it? You clearly didn’t search them when you brought them aboard.” Tonovan waved at Jadora’s belongings resting in a pile on the artifact, as if it were some hallway table meant to hold knickknacks.
“I sensed nothing magical about their belongings.” The way Malek said it suggested that he wasn’t concerned about anything that wasn’t magical. “And I had them empty their pockets back on the beach. You saw that. There wasn’t a key.”
“Do they know where it is?” Tonovan focused on Jadora. “Tell us where it is.”
The words contained a magical coercion, and she almost blurted out the answer before she caught herself.
Malek gazed at the side of her face, no doubt trying to read her mind. She did her best to blank her thoughts. The tendons in Jak’s neck stood out as he fought against the magic holding him in place. Darv eyed Malek’s back, looking wistful, but he didn’t have a weapon, and she prayed he wouldn’t try anything even if he did.
“Where is it?” Tonovan growled, focusing harder on her.
“I… don’t know.” True. She had no idea where it was now.
Tonovan glared even harder, but then he backed off, exhaling a weary breath.
“Careful, General,” Malek said mildly. “At your age, you might give yourself an aneurism.”
“Hilarious.” Tonovan turned his scowl on him. “You’re only feeling perky because it’s less work attacking a few people than defending against the combined might of three mageships.”
“Yes, my task was a simple one.”
Jadora, who’d seen him battling multiple opponents and climbing up to deal with the other ship while being fired at by half of its crew, might have snorted at the statement, but Malek was looking at her again. Not a glare but that same mild expression. She didn’t feel him rooting around in her thoughts, but she was sure he was.
She looked toward the stars, focusing on them and wondering if she would ever find a way home. She occupied her thoughts with contemplating what she would do if she returned, the relaxing teas she would pick up from her herbalist friend in the market square. She needed relaxing teas now.
Malek snorted, no doubt knowing exactly what she was doing.
“You’ll tell us one way or another,” he said softly. “Work with us. As I said before, there’s no reason for you to choose to be our enemies. Whether you like it or not, we all live under Uthari’s rule, but also under his protection. It’s better to work with him than against him. Where is the key?”
His tone wasn’t angry or demanding but perfectly reasonable. That almost made it easy to believe he was right, that she should go along with him, but to hand over both pieces of the artifact to him and his loathsome ruler… Loran would have sacrificed himself before doing that.
“This is taking forever,” Tonovan snapped. “Just threaten the boy. Or her friend. He’s on the verge of collapsing anyway. Kill one of them if she doesn’t cooperate.”
Fear shot through Jadora, and she clenched her eyes shut. She couldn’t let that happen.
“That’s not necessary,” Malek said. “She’ll tell me.”
“Uh huh. Your reason and your sex appeal are working wonders on her now.” Tonovan strode forward.
Jak tensed, but Malek’s magic still held him. Tonovan ignored him and focused on Darv, an eager light brightening his previously weary eyes. In that instant, Jadora knew that he would enjoy killing one of them.
She lunged forward, lifting her hands to intercept him, but two soldiers behind Tonovan pointed weapons at her. Someone’s magic—she didn’t even know whose—pinned her from all sides, leaving her as immobile as Jak. Unimpeded, Tonovan grabbed Darv, jerking him upright. Darv cried out, his body stiffening and his head jerking back as some new magic tormented him.
“No!” Jadora strained uselessly. Her mouth was all that she could move. “Stop. I’ll cooperate. I already told you I would if you put them back in their cells.”
“Stop, Tonovan,” Malek said, his voice cold now.
Tonovan didn’t, and Darv screamed, his face contorting with pain.
“The mercenaries,” Jadora blurted. “They have it. I gave it to them. Stop hurting him.”
He didn’t until Malek stepped toward him and used his magic to break Tonovan’s hold. When Tonovan released him, Darv dropped to his knees.
“Don’t you dare use your magic on me, zidarr,” Tonovan snarled at Malek.
“When I give you an order,” Malek said, “you will follow it.”
“You don’t have any seniority over me.”
“No, but I am more powerful than you, and Uthari has a dozen others he can promote into your place.”
Whoever had been holding Jadora released her. She rushed over and dropped down beside Darv, wrapping an arm around his shoulders.
“I’m so sorry,” she whispered to him.
Tonovan pointed a finger at Malek’s chest. “I’ll tell him you said that, that you threatened me. I’ve proven my worth in battle to him again and again, leading thousands of troops, not merely skulking in the night, some cowardly assassin with a knife.”
“You think I’m a coward?” Malek’s dark eyes were like chips of obsidian. “Then duel me. We’ll settle this here and now.”
Alarm flashed across Tonovan’s face, and he stepped back. “Yes, let’s fight in front of our prisoners. An excellent idea.”
“Duel me to the death, or do not call me a coward, not when you fear to face me.”
Darv barely responded to Jadora’s hug. He was wheezing. Concern for him brought tears to her eyes. These people were awful. How could she get Jak and Darv out of this situation?
“Screw you, Malek,” Tonovan said.
“I’m sure you would, given the chance. There’s nothing you won’t screw.”
Fury reddened Tonovan’s face, but he was done trading insults with Malek. “This is idiotic. Let’s just retrieve this key and take the artifact back to Utharika. If we stay out here over the sea, we’ll be attacked by someone else who thinks they can get it before we’re behind the city’s protected walls.”
“True,” Malek said. “Now that it’s no longer buried, it gives off a powerful magical signature. I wouldn’t be surprised if every mage within five hundred miles can sense it.”
“And the word has clearly gotten out about what it is or at least that it’s a potential game changer among the kings. They don’t want Uthari to have it.”
“We’ll be home in three hundred miles if we hold our current course.” Malek gripped his chin, eyeing the starry sky behind them. He seemed to have lost all of his irritation with Tonovan. The general’s face was still flushed and angry, and Jadora had no doubt that he would shove Malek overboard if he ever got the opportunity. “I’ll contact the artifact-hunters guild in Perchver. Some of them won’t be afraid to face mercenaries, and for a fee, one will bring it to us. It’ll probably be easy for one of them to get the key. I trust the mercenaries don’t know the value of what they have.”
Malek looked at Jadora. She glared at him, but if he wanted clarification, she would give it. She couldn’t risk them hurting Darv further.
“No,” Malek said, finding the answer in her mind without her help. “They only know that you asked them to keep it until you meet again.”
Something that would likely never happen. Jadora stared down at the deck, weariness overtaking her. The fantasy of shopping for tea and returning home to her normal life had little hope of ever coming true.
“Go contact him,” Tonovan said. “You’re right that we’ll keep being attacked if we go back to Zaruk’s kingdom for it, but you know Uthari won’t be happy until he has the complete artifact set.”
“We’ll get it.” Malek waved two of the soldiers to come forward. “Return them to their cells with food and water.” He eyed Jak. “And a shirt.”
“Yes, my lord.”
Malek jogged toward one of the hatches leading belowdecks. Jadora, wanting to be out from under Tonovan’s unbalanced eye, didn’t hesitate to rise to her feet and help Darv up beside her.
Jak gasped as he was finally released from the frigid hold that had locked him in place. He scowled at Tonovan, though Jadora didn’t know if he’d been responsible.
“Don’t start anything,” she whispered, nodding for him to help Darv from his other side.
“I’m sorry for being a burden,” Darv whispered, anguish in his eyes.
“You’re not,” Jadora said, though she deeply regretted that he was along with them.
“Now they’ll be after those women,” Darv said.
Something else that Jadora felt guilty about. She’d heard about the artifact-hunters guild. Most of them were thieves, and some even murdered to make their acquisitions. If even one member of Thorn Company was killed because of this, it would be Jadora’s fault.
“We’ll figure something out,” she said as they walked across the deck after the soldiers. The words sounded inane to her ears—they’d lost their best chance to escape—but she hoped they comforted Darv.
“I wish they’d dueled and killed each other,” Jak muttered. “Though I’m sure Malek would have killed that stupid general.”
“What did you say?” Tonovan boomed after them.
“Nothing.” Jadora smacked Jak on the back, half to berate him and half to hurry him along.
Jak kept his mouth shut, but he must have been thinking unsavory thoughts, for magic halted their group once again, forming a wall in front of them. Tonovan strode after them. The two soldiers frowned, turning around.
“He’s sorry.” Jadora lifted an apologetic hand, though she also wished the two men had dueled and that Malek had killed Tonovan.
“I could beat that bastard in a duel.” Tonovan stopped in front of them, turning his glower on Jadora instead of Jak. Anger raged in his eyes.
She had to learn to keep her own thoughts under control around these people. What if he took his frustrations with Malek out on them?
“Yes, of course,” Jadora made herself say in her most simpering tone, blanking her mind. “I apologize. I should not have thought disrespectful thoughts.”
Jak shot her an incredulous look, but when she shook her head in warning, he didn’t say anything.
“That you powerless peons even look me in the eyes is ludicrous.” Tonovan jerked his hand up, and the same magic that had knocked them to their knees on the beach crushed them down again.
Darv remained on his feet—too weak a threat for Tonovan to worry about? Jadora hoped so. She willed him to get off the deck and out of Tonovan’s sight.
“That you hesitated to answer our questions,” Tonovan continued, working himself up to a lather, “that you thought to defy your superiors… you will be punished.”
The magical pressure wrapped around Jadora grew tighter and tighter, pain assaulting her from every nerve. Tears sprang to her eyes.
Next to her, Jak dropped to his hands and knees, his body shaking. Anger on her son’s behalf raged through her, but she was powerless to do anything.
“Go get Malek,” one of the soldiers whispered, the words barely reaching Jadora’s ears.
The other soldier jogged through the same hatch he’d gone through earlier.
Dare she hope it would be in time? Or that Malek would care enough to stop this? She could barely draw a breath. Blackness throbbed at the edge of her vision. If she fell unconscious, would Tonovan leave her alone?
“Stop it,” came a cry from the side, not Malek but Darv.
“No!” Jadora tried to yell, to warn him to stay out of it, but she couldn’t get the air to force the cry out.
She tipped onto her side, her shoulder banging the deck. She barely felt it. What did a bump matter when pain such as she’d never known tore through her body like fire burning inside her nerves?
Darv grabbed a dagger from the remaining soldier and ran toward Tonovan.
Again, Jadora tried to scream no, to dissuade him from the suicidal path, but he raised the knife, trying to kill her tormentor.
Tonovan flicked a finger. Darv flew through the air, slamming into the wall by the hatch with a thunderous snapping of bone. He crumpled to the deck, the knife falling from his lifeless fingers.
The hatch slammed open, and the power gripping Jadora, the pain coursing through her veins, disappeared. But she couldn’t feel any relief as Malek charged out, only horror. Hot tears streaked sideways down her cheeks as she stared at Darv, his neck broken, his life already gone.
“What’s going on?” Malek demanded. Too late.
Five seconds too late.
“Your wayward prisoners attacked me,” Tonovan snarled, no remorse in his voice. The bastard had enjoyed that. She knew he had. “That’s what happens when you’re lenient. And who let that idiot have a knife?”
Malek looked at Darv’s body, the knife, and the soldier who was missing it. The man patted his empty sheath and muttered, “Sorry.”
“Take those two to their cells,” Malek told the soldiers, then gripped Tonovan’s shoulder and turned him toward another hatch. “You and I need to have a talk with Uthari.”
“Of course,” Tonovan said calmly, walking away with him.
As the soldier lifted Jadora from the deck—she couldn’t have forced her rubbery legs to move even if she’d wanted to—Tonovan looked over his shoulder at her.
The price for defying your superiors is great, he spoke into her mind. Do not forget it.
Smoke wafted from the destroyed windows and charred and broken facade of the curio shop. The balcony had been blasted by magelocks, leaving most of it in pieces on the sooty sandstone below. During the battle, and once he was sure Thorn Company was away, Sorath had blown out the back wall to escape. He always kept weapons—and explosives—on him. Old habits died hard.
It was after midnight now. He’d waited hours to return to what had been his home for the last year—the last five years if he counted from the purchase date. But he’d only stopped by infrequently when he’d been leading Fang and Talon. Commanders of mercenary companies didn’t have the leisure to take long periods of leave. But these days… he had too much leisure. Too much time to think.
He crouched in the shadows of an alley across the way. Originally, he’d planned to go in through the hole in the back, but he’d heard whispers and grunts. Did they belong to random looters searching for valuables or soldiers that had been left behind to watch the place?
Sorath didn’t know whose soldiers they were, since they hadn’t been courteous enough to wear uniforms, but he recognized military men when he battled them. They hadn’t been the city enforcers.
He rubbed his shoulder and flexed muscles that had stiffened in the hours since the battle. That he’d suffered nothing worse than stiff muscles was a miracle, since he’d stayed and fought far longer than wise, trying to buy time for Captain Ferroki’s team to escape. Strange that he’d never questioned the need to do that. In the field, they’d been enemies more often than allies, their units hired by opposing forces, but he’d always admired the scrappy company of female soldiers. They took a lot of flak from the other units, most all-male or predominantly-male, but they still found work and performed all the duties asked of them. And Ferroki had always been serene, even pleasant, to be around. An unusual quality in a mercenary leader.
It had surprised him when she’d walked in, asking for his opinion, but it shouldn’t have. If anyone could locate him, her team could, and she’d never been too proud to ask for help. And a mercenary turned treasure-acquisitions expert had been the perfect person to ask about that medallion. Even before switching careers, he’d had a fondness for the ancient world and the relics and clues it had left behind.
Still, if Ferroki could find him, others could. Maybe he hadn’t given up his old name and ways as thoroughly as he’d thought he had. He no longer glared warningly when soldiers didn’t address him as colonel or sir, but he’d caught himself almost introducing himself as Sorath more than once. His father had given him the name when he’d been born, and even though Vorzaz sounded more like a treasure hunter and occasional scrivener, he’d struggled to make it feel right for him.
He let his hand stray to his pocket, needing the reassurance that his scrivenings were still with him. Half memoir, half distillation of all the military wisdom and strategies he’d learned over the years, he wanted it left behind in the world after he was gone, if only as a warning for other mercenary commanders.
The clank of something dropping filtered out of the building, and Sorath scowled, annoyed at the idea of thieves further ransacking the place. Hadn’t the day’s carnage been enough? True, he’d purchased the shop from the old owner with most of the knickknacks already inside, and they held no deep personal value to him, but it was the principle.
He circled to the back and approached the hole in the wall, avoiding pieces of plaster and brick on the ground. Though he’d managed to keep his weapons through the skirmish, he picked up a brick. He didn’t want to kill simple thieves, probably kids trying to find valuables that they could trade for food.
Only two people were inside, clothed in dark rags as they plucked through the wreckage.
“Get out of my shop,” Sorath ordered.
One sprinted for the front doorway—the door had been ripped off the hinges—but the other spun toward him with a magelock pistol in hand. Though surprised at the weapon, Sorath threw his brick and sprang back out of sight. The weapon went off, blue light flashing in the dark a second before the thief yelped, the brick striking home. His magelock clattered to the floor.
The blast from the weapon drilled a hole in the building behind the curio shop, and someone farther down the block yelled an order to knock it off.
Sorath charged back inside, sprinting so the thief didn’t have time to grab his weapon again. But he didn’t try. The kid scampered back, half-tripping over the stairway railing that had fallen to the floor, and flailed.
Sorath could have caught him but didn’t bother. He let the kid regain his balance and sprint away. What remained here wasn’t worth fighting for, and Sorath dared not stick around to rebuild. Too much attention had been brought to the place.
That saddened him, but he couldn’t bring himself to feel angry with Ferroki for coming to him for help. He would find another hideout. He’d only returned because his favorite pen was in the desk drawer—if it hadn’t been stolen. It was magical and never ran out of ink. He’d grown partial to it.
The charred floorboards on the stairs gave way when he put his weight on them, and he ended up jumping and grabbing the edge of the landing. His pick slipped, and he dangled from his hand. Part of the landing crumbled but not enough to dislodge him, and he thunked the pick down again, lodging it in a board this time. Growling, he pulled himself up, hating the reminder of how much harder everything was these days with one hand instead of two.
Inside the apartment, the desk was on its side, the drawers torn open. He sighed, certain the pen had been stolen, but it had skidded under a bookcase that had tipped over, all of the tomes fallen out—no thieves had bothered to take those. He found it under the book pile.
“Hah.” He held it up in triumph, though in the dark, he could barely see it. “Now I can—”
The pulsing of a familiar artifact carved from dylorian crystal emanated softly from under the pile of books. He grunted, surprised the device hadn’t been taken. Did he care about whatever message was coming in on the communications node? Most likely, it was an offer of work for someone in the artifact-hunters guild. Once, wizards, mages, and the handfuls of terrene humans with enough wealth to hire mercenaries had sent offers of employment to Fang and Talon over the magical device, but the unit was no more, and none of those people should know Sorath was alive.
Though after today… it was possible that had changed. He was certain those soldiers had come after Thorn Company and the medallion rather than him, but more than a few of them had survived and seen his face. They might have reported his existence and whereabouts.
“Better check it.” He pushed aside books, and the glow of the magical device washed the sooty walls in orange light.
When he rested his hand atop the orb on its wooden pedestal, a conical beam of light shot upward. The face and shoulders of a man appeared in the beam, wavering and semi-transparent. Despite that, Sorath had no trouble identifying the zidarr, and that alarmed him. If King Uthari’s Malek was messaging him… nothing good could come of that.
Could Uthari have learned that he and his fellow kings hadn’t quite finished the job when they’d conspired to have Sorath’s unit destroyed and Sorath killed?
“Members of the artifact-hunters guild,” Malek said, and Sorath let out a breath he hadn’t realized he’d been holding. It was generic, not addressed specifically to him. “I am offering a reward of a thousand gold oroni to whomever delivers an artifact that looks like this to me.”
A mirror image of the dragon-headed medallion Ferroki had brought replaced Malek’s head in the beam, and concern hollowed Sorath’s stomach. With a reward like that, every artifact hunter in the kingdom—in many kingdoms—would be searching for it. The guild had some talented people in it, people very good at finding missing treasures. And most of them didn’t mind taking down those who were holding the treasures at the time.
Sorath shook his head. Even if Ferroki had left Perchver—she better have after that attack—and she managed to avoid being found by artifact hunters, Malek himself would come for that medallion. Likely, he was busy with something else—like that portal—and that was the only reason he hadn’t already.
Sorath swore as the image and the orange light faded, leaving him in darkness again.
Did he need to warn Ferroki? After today, she had to know that people were after that thing, even if she didn’t know who. And Sorath didn’t owe her anything. If anything, she owed him for keeping those soldiers busy. This wasn’t his fight, but… he’d spent all of his adult life looking out for soldiers. The people in his own unit, for the most part, but he’d always believed in honor among warriors, even if they were under someone else’s command.
He had to leave the city anyway—after this mess, it wouldn’t be safe for him to stick around—so maybe he would find out which way her company had gone and head that way himself. If he passed her on the road, he could deliver the warning, and then head to a safe new place to lie low for a while.
Sorath eyed the communications node. “Why do I have a feeling I’m going to regret this?”
Chapter 13
13
After the mageship landed, a few faint clanks and a shiver the only indicators that they’d docked somewhere, Malek was the one to come for them.
Jak, his shredded shirt replaced by a beige tunic the soldiers had brought with their food, glowered up at Malek, but inside, he was relieved it wasn’t Tonovan. Seeing that bastard kill Darv while Jak had been crumpled on the deck and powerless to help had been the most infuriating and distressing experience of his life. And he was worried for his mother, who’d barely said a word since it happened.
She sat on the floor, her elbows on her knees and her head in her hands. She didn’t look up when the grate clanked aside, only grunting in annoyance when Malek used his power to lift them out of their cell.
Jak was angry and anguished at losing Darv, but he couldn’t imagine how much worse it had been for his mother. She’d known him for decades, longer than Jak had been alive. He wished there was a way to help her, but he couldn’t imagine their fate would get better from here.
When they landed in the corridor, only Malek stood in front of them, his face impassive. What did he care that a prisoner had been killed? Especially when Tonovan had made it seem like Darv had been trying to kill him. Maybe he had been, but Tonovan had deserved it for torturing them half to death. And Jak wasn’t convinced that Tonovan hadn’t masterminded all that, maybe even magically putting the dagger into Darv’s hands, so he could kill the prisoner without worrying about retaliation from Malek.
“I apologize for the death of your comrade,” Malek stated.
Mother looked numbly at him and didn’t respond. Jak was surprised he’d bothered apologizing, however stiffly; he had a hard time believing a zidarr cared one way or another about the deaths of powerless peons, as Tonovan had called them.
“Come,” Malek said when neither of them responded. “King Uthari requires your presence.”
“Fantastic,” Jak muttered.
The king was probably even more of a megalomaniacal ass than Tonovan. Would he also force them to their knees and torture them to show off how powerful he was?
Malek opened his mouth slightly, as if he meant to say something else, but he turned around without speaking and led the way out of the corridor. Jak walked next to Mother in case she needed support. Her gait was wooden, like a clockwork soldier winding down. She looked back toward the cell Darv had once been in, her eyes haunted.
In that moment, Jak resolved that he would get them out of this situation. They would escape the sky city, get back to land, and then… then he wasn’t sure. They might have to hide out for the rest of their lives, or at least long enough for the mages to forget about them, but that was possible. He’d heard of other refugees doing it.
Two soldiers waited on the platform, and they fell in behind Jak and his mother as they followed Malek. Did he truly think either of them needed an escort or could put up a fight here?
Outside, the daylight was blinding after the darkness of their cell, and Jak stumbled over the lip of the hatch as he stepped out. Mother caught him by the elbow. It might have been instinct, but at least he knew she wasn’t in complete shock. If they were going to escape, it would take both of them working together to come up with something clever.
Jak recovered but paused after only a step outside and stared around.
The mageship was anchored—if that was the right term for it—at an open air dock outside the pale yellow walls of Uthari’s sky city, a place Jak had only seen pictures of in books. The wall rose forty or fifty feet high and stretched for a mile or more in each direction. Even though he’d known the sky cities had populations of hundreds of thousands, he hadn’t imagined anything so vast.
The top of the wall wasn’t flat; it undulated like an uneven wave, the style intriguing for its lack of symmetry. He briefly forgot his thoughts of escape as he envisioned drawing whatever buildings and structures lay within the city. Decorative statues of animals, men, and even geographic features from around the world were mounted along the wall, and from the top rose turrets and watchtowers, the windows surprisingly open to the elements. Maybe magic could keep out wind and cold.
“It’s gone,” Mother mumbled, drawing Jak’s attention back to the mageship.
The portal no longer lay on the deck.
“They must have already offloaded it,” he said.
“This way.” The guards led them toward a surprisingly mundane-looking gangplank.
Malek had paused there to wait for them. How lovely that the great zidarr would personally escort them to his master.
Sighing, Jak led his mother to the gangplank, a six-foot-wide strip that extended from the mageship to a dock, one of dozens in a network of docks that provided berths for everything from mageships as large as the Star Flyer to personal yachts to massive barges to contraptions with closed cabins and wings that weren’t even vaguely similar to sailing ships. Everything floated, kept aloft by magic. He wondered if the magic ever failed and shipowners came out to the docks in the morning to find that their craft had fallen out of their slots and crashed hundreds of feet below.
As soon as Jak stepped onto the gangplank and saw that below to either side, he wobbled, spreading his arms for balance as his entire body clenched with fear. They weren’t hundreds of feet above the ground, he realized as he stared transfixed, but thousands.
The sky city floated above a mountain range—the Sawtooth Mountains, some detached academic part of his brain supplied—with its snow-capped peaks stark against the blue sky. Valleys, fields, and rivers to one side of the mountains were also visible, with clouds throwing shadows on the farmlands. That was the most surreal part. Looking down at shadows thrown by clouds. And the clouds themselves. He’d been vaguely aware of encyclopedia articles describing the sky cities as being above the clouds, but he never would have thought to imagine it looking like this.
Nor would he have imagined that the mages wouldn’t have railings on any of their docks or gangplanks to keep people from falling off. That was strange given how busy the docks were. Someone could easily be jostled and pitch over the side. Could the mages all fly so this was not a problem? Jak had seen Malek levitate the artifact—and levitate him in and out of his cell—but he’d had to climb to reach that other mageship, so maybe flying wasn’t possible. Even if the mages could fly, what about all the terrene humans that labored under their thumbs in these cities?
Even as Jak gaped around, dirty, scruffy workers in farm tunics that fell to their bare knees were unloading cabbages, potatoes, carrots, and other fall crops from a barge docked near the mageship. The produce went onto a train of floating carts, while a bored driver sat on a bench at the front of the queue. He alternated reading from a book and barking orders to the workers.
“Tax collection,” his mother said, touching Jak’s shoulder and nodding for him to keep going. Their guards were shifting weight impatiently behind them. “The mages own the land and allow the farmers to live on and work it. In exchange, half of their crops go to the sky cities.”
“I know.” Jak started walking again. “I took Sociology and read the textbooks.”
“The textbooks have to be approved by the mage councils and tend to describe the system as more equitable than it is. Be glad you were born into a family with an academic charter.”
“Are cartographers treated more charitably?” Jak spotted Malek waiting for them on the dock and headed toward him. Presumably, there was no point in fantasizing about sprinting off into the crowd and disappearing. Sentry disks, the same as they had in Sprungtown, floated about, keeping a magical eye on the docks. Jak had a feeling the enforcers, or whatever they had up here, could easily find anyone hiding in their city. “Or will I have to give half of my maps to them?”
“Just half the income you make from selling them.” Normally, her tone would have been full of righteous indignation as she described the plight of mundane humans, but Mother seemed too weary—too sad—to speak in anything but a flat tone. “The rules are the same for all; academics just get less dirty following them.”
“I get ink all over my fingers, and I can work up a decent stink when I’m drawing vigorously.”
Malek’s eyebrows rose slightly—despite the crowd, nobody bustled past close to him, so he probably had no trouble listening to their conversation—but he didn’t comment. In the sea of red-uniformed soldiers and civilians in flamboyantly colored clothing, Malek stood out for his simple brown and tan attire—and for the fact that nobody got close to him. No doubt the mages could sense his power and knew exactly what and who he was—and didn’t want to risk irking him.
Tonovan was the one Jak worried more about irking. Thankfully, he wasn’t in sight.
They headed toward a grassy peninsula in front of a great gate in the wall. The grass-covered earth surprised Jak, as did the perfectly ordinary cobblestone road leading across it and into the city. The lawn extended for a couple dozen yards all along the base of the long wall. It was as if the city were built on actual ground, an island in the sky.
Beside the road, floating carts waited to take riders to their destinations. Some were driven by people while others waited empty and took off on their own once their passengers boarded. Malek waved for Jak and Mother to board one without a driver, the gilded sides gleaming in the sun. A canopy offered shade for three rows of plush seats covered in jaguar fur.
Malek sat in the back, the two soldiers in the front, and Jak and Mother the middle. The seat conformed to Jak’s body, gently supporting his butt and back while inviting him to lean back and relax. To his surprise, a slight warmth emanated from it, stealing any chill the air might have imparted. He’d never sat in a seat so ridiculously comfortable in his life.
“Is this the king’s personal vehicle?” he guessed.
His mother, glum eyes toward the open gate in the wall, did not answer.
“One of many,” Malek replied.
“Must be nice to have a fleet of cushy heated seats,” Jak muttered.
Mother elbowed him. “No sarcasm while we’re here. Don’t even think it if you can help it.”
He knew he shouldn’t be lippy with the mages—especially with Malek—but it was hard to keep the thoughts from bubbling up in his mind. “Being reverent didn’t get Darv anywhere,” he said, then immediately regretted the words.
Anguish flashed in his mother’s eyes. She had to blame herself for Darv’s death, for all of this.
“I’m sorry,” he apologized, thinking again that none of them would have been in this mess if not for his insistence five years earlier that they continue Father’s quest. “I’ll keep my mouth shut.”
“Good.”
The cart floated through the gate—there hadn’t been even a faint lurch when it started up—and into wide streets full of pedestrians, laborers, a handful of bicyclists, and more float carts and individual float seats. A few people, mage and terrene human alike, glanced at Malek, but they never stared. They jerked their gazes away, not wanting his attention.
“I’m sorry as well,” Mother whispered after a couple of minutes. “I never should have brought you along on the dig. Had I truly believed we would find it this time, and that Uthari’s men were watching my every move…” She shook her head. “I should have known that. They’ve searched my office on campus in the past. I just thought it had been a while, and they’d stopped paying such close attention. I was so careful to put together the expedition telling as few people as possible about our destination and goals.”
“You couldn’t have left me home alone for a month. You know I’m a horrible cook. I would have wasted away, and you would have returned to my alarming gauntness and felt vast guilt.” Never mind that he never would have let her go without him; he’d skipped classes and stowed away before when she’d gone searching for the portal. It was his quest as much as hers. He’d wanted so badly to see his father’s work completed.
“Don’t you eat half your meals at the dining hall on campus?”
“Not when I’m working on my gauntness.” Or when he’d spent his modest earnings from assisting professors and working in the library on pens, paper, and atlases instead of food. Or the signed limited edition Map of the Legorian Labyrinths by Dranith Dragor. He’d skipped lunches for months to pay for that.
The city inside the walls was as magnificent as Jak had anticipated, and he fell silent as he peered all around the cart. Aware of Malek behind him, he tried not to gape too openly, but the architecture was unique and striking. It was so different from the styles both past and present in the main cities on Agorval—or even in cities on other continents that he’d seen in travels and books—that it seemed alien. And he supposed it was, if one agreed with the factions that said mages were no longer human. He attributed it more to their ability to levitate building materials and place stones in ways that would have been impossible for those using only mundane tools. Further, the stones themselves didn’t appear natural. The material used in many of the walls was more like a colored cement or other aggregate and appeared as lightweight as it was sturdy. All manner of dyes imbued in it made the buildings a riot of colors. Had he not hated the mages and all they stood for, Jak might have admired what they’d created up here.
The king’s castle, a walled compound within the walled city, was comprised of blue and gray buildings and courtyards that sprawled across several blocks. No lesser buildings dared encroach toward its walls; it was surrounded by lush gardens of plants, shrubs, and shade trees. Laborers walked among the paths, pruning branches and clipping grass. On one of the lawns, a group of boys threw a disc for a dog, laughing and giving treats to the pup. The mundaneness of the scene was strange in this anything-but-mundane city, and Jak wondered if they were young mages or children of the laborers working in the gardens. Probably the former. From what he’d read, children of laborers were put to work young.
Castle guards saluted Malek, their fists thumping against their chests, as the cart floated through a gate into a courtyard, along a flower-lined drive, and up steps and through open doors large enough to accommodate them. Nobody asked Malek for his identity or demanded a password. To be zidarr was to be trusted.
In an open hall, the cart stopped, and they climbed out. Malek led the way, with the guards walking after Jak and his mother. He took note of the halls, the corridors, and stairs they traveled, mapping out the place in his mind, partially out of habit and partially in case they needed it for an escape later. After seeing all the ships at the dock, the idea of escaping didn’t seem as impossible as it had before. If they could sneak onto one of those farm barges, maybe they could make it back to land and from there home.
“You would be easily found if you fled to your home,” Malek said, not looking over his shoulder as he kept walking.
Mother gave Jak a startled look.
“I wasn’t being irreverent,” Jak protested. Anyway, it wasn’t his fault that Malek was a big snoop of a mind reader. “Just contemplating escape.”
“The ideal thing to think about with a telepathic zidarr two steps in front of us,” she murmured.
“Sorry, I’ll go back to contemplating the architecture.”
“A good idea.”
Malek led them up several wide sets of staircases and down an equally wide corridor with only one set of doors in it. They were gold-plated—or maybe solid gold—and featured imagery of dragons flying over castles.
“I doubt King Uthari has any need for the boy,” Malek surprised Jak by saying. “Perhaps you could negotiate for his return home.”
“What about my return home?” Mother asked.
“I do not know if that is the king’s desire, but if he gets what he wants from the portal, perhaps.”
“What is it he wants?” she asked.
“He will share it with you if he wishes.”
The doors opened of their own accord as Malek approached. They were six inches thick. If they were solid gold, they would weigh tons. Jak wondered how much the entire city weighed and what power kept it all aloft. It boggled his mind that such a thing was possible, even with magic.
They entered a spacious parlor with numerous sofas and chairs as luxurious and plush as the ones in the cart—did they also heat one’s butt?—though these were covered in rich brown leather rather than fur. A slender man with wispy gray hair stood off to one side, tinkering with a strange apparatus that looked like something from Mother’s old lab. Glowing liquids in flasks flowed through a maze of tubes and clear pipes, the whole construct rising at least six feet. A reclining chair was nestled into a gap in the middle. What a strange piece of parlor furniture.
Mother frowned over at it, as if it were a puzzle to be solved. The reclining chair was empty, and the man—why did Jak want to call him a scientist?—only glanced over as they entered.
Someone else was waiting for them in the main seating area, and Jak slumped. General Tonovan. Oh, how Jak had hoped he wouldn’t see the murdering ass again.
Tonovan lounged on a plush sofa, his legs crossed, and an arm resting over the back as he sipped from a glass of amber liquid. Ice cubes clinked when it moved. Did the mages magically freeze water or have giant slabs cut, packed in sawdust, and hauled up from the frozen lakes in the Sawtooth Mountains every day?
“Took you long enough, my lord,” Tonovan drawled to Malek. “Did you take the scenic route?”
“Our guests were awed by the city.”
“So you let them stop and gape? I would have put bags over their heads so they couldn’t find their way out again.”
“Your tour-guide services must be coveted far and wide.”
Tonovan grunted. “Yes, that’s what I’m known for.”
“I know my treasured warriors aren’t sniping at each other again,” a voice came from one of several open doors off the antechamber. King Uthari?
The slender man who stepped out, clad in simpler clothing than half the people they’d passed in the city, wasn’t immediately recognizable. King Uthari’s face was on the currency in Sprungtown, but the portrait the coins were based on must have been painted when he was much younger. His pale face was leaner and sharper than the one on the coins, his head bald with wispy white tufts around the ears instead of full of thick hair. But his pale blue eyes were sharp in a way that wasn’t conveyed on the coins, and nothing about them, or about his sure walk into the room, suggested frailness or senility.
“You know it’s our favorite hobby.” Tonovan rose and saluted Uthari.
Surprisingly, Malek only gave him a head nod. He stood with his hands clasped behind his back and behind Jak and Mother, where he could watch everybody in the room.
“Malek tried to lure me into a duel last night,” Tonovan continued. “I believe he’s been fantasizing about my death again.”
“Haven’t you been fantasizing about his?” Uthari asked.
“Every chance I get.”
“One would think his hobbies would occupy his mind more than that,” Malek said.
Tonovan curled a lip at him, then gave Mother an openly lascivious look that startled Jak so much that he almost sprang over two couches to plant a fist in Tonovan’s face. It didn’t seem to startle his mother, but she took a step closer to Malek.
“Control your hound, Professor,” Tonovan told Mother, glancing at Jak’s closed fists. “It would be unfortunate if anything happened to him.”
Jak forced his face to smooth, though he didn’t have it in him to erase the loathing from his mind.
“He’s too smart to do anything foolish,” she said, though her glance toward Jak let him see the warning in her eyes. She hoped he was too smart to do anything foolish.
“It’s so unfortunate that your other colleague wasn’t.” Tonovan waved casually. “I hadn’t intended to kill him, you know. It was simple self-defense.”
Mother clenched her jaw and didn’t respond.
“When I intend to kill people, I draw out the moment more. To savor it.” The smile Tonovan sent her was ghoulish, and he glanced at Jak—to check his response?
Jak also clenched his jaw and did not let himself respond.
“Are you done being sanguinary, General?” Uthari asked, his voice neither amused by nor condemning of his officer’s antics.
The scientist poured some chemical or maybe alchemical substance into a tube on his contraption and didn’t look over at the conversation.
“I could be, Your Majesty.” Tonovan looked at Uthari, an eager gleam in his eyes. “Is there a new mission you called me here to discuss?”
“It’s likely there will be. As you know from your midnight battle, our acquisition of the dragon portal has not gone unnoticed by other players on the field. King Zaruk is drawing in allies and has put out a call to numerous mercenary companies. According to our spies, he hasn’t said what battle he wishes them to fight, but the timing suggests we may be his target.”
“I would relish a chance to use our military might against piddling mercenaries,” Tonovan said, “but I do hope he sends his elite forces against us. I want another chance to embarrass General Mox.”
“I have no doubt,” Uthari said. “See to the troops and ensure all is ready. They may intend to move swiftly, attempting to catch us off guard.”
“They tried that last night.” Tonovan sneered. “With superior forces, but that didn’t keep me and my men from destroying three of their best mageships.”
“So you reported.” Uthari inclined his head. “As always, I appreciate your hard work and talent. You will be rewarded.”
“Thank you, Your Majesty.” Tonovan saluted again, fist to chest. “I live to serve.”
“And I thank you for your service.” Uthari spread his hand toward the golden doors.
As Tonovan strode out with his chin up, like a hound that had just been given a treat, Jak checked Malek’s face, wondering if he was annoyed that Tonovan hadn’t included his role in that description of who had defeated the other ships. But Malek was in the same military parade-rest stance, his features no more peeved than usual.
The doors automatically closed behind Tonovan, and Jak’s muscles loosened an iota. To believe they were safe was foolish, but at least the sadistic pervert was gone. Maybe Uthari was one too—he certainly had no problem with employing one—but he looked too old to be interested in ogling Mother. And so far, Malek had only gotten close when he’d been removing things from her pockets.
Uthari walked over to murmur a question to the scientist—Jak couldn’t hear the words—before sitting in a chair facing another chair and a sofa. A tea set, an alcohol decanter, and glasses and mugs rested on a silver tray on a low table next to a large plate of small sandwiches and fancy pastries.
“Join me, Professor Freedar.” Uthari gestured to the sofa. “And Professor Freedar’s son. Jakstor, is it?”
It would be surprising if he didn’t know who they were—he must have written their names down for Malek when instructing him on who to kidnap—but Jak still found it creepy. He reminded himself that this slender man was probably as powerful as Malek.
The wizard kings had all carved out their territories by raising armies, throwing wealth and power around, and magically blasting away all their enemies. Some ancestor of Uthari’s, who shared his name, had taken over an existing kingdom and established this sky city a couple of centuries earlier, though there were rumors that this Uthari had been the one to do it, some magic keeping him alive far longer than humanly possible. Jak suspected he was simply the fifth or sixth Uthari since his ancestor had done the dirty work, but that didn’t mean he wasn’t powerful. The kingdoms didn’t automatically pass from father to son—or, in a couple of cases, mother to daughter—since the mages respected power above all else and ousted those who weren’t strong enough to keep their kingdoms.
“I see you’re a mute family,” Uthari said, then nodded to one of the guards.
Neither Jak nor Mother had moved at his invitation.
The guard came forward and bumped them in the backs, growling a terse, “Sit.”
Jak was surprised Uthari didn’t have Malek manhandle the guests. He was scarier than the uniformed guards, but maybe such acts were beneath a zidarr.
With her face a mask, Mother walked past the scientist’s contraption and sat on the sofa facing Uthari. Jak perched on the edge of a chair where he could see the old man and also the door and Malek.
“The loss of your colleague no doubt has left you particularly irked with me.” Uthari poured himself a cup of tea. “And you must be frustrated by the removal of the artifact you sought, but I trust you understand that it would have been illegal for you to claim for yourself a relic found on a king’s property.”
“That is not its original resting place, and King Zaruk has no right to it,” Mother said. “But if we’re strictly interpreting property law, is it not illegal for a king to claim a relic found on another king’s property?”
“It is contentious, and it’s possible we’ll have a small war over that very issue.” Uthari smiled and gestured toward the food and drink. “Are you thirsty? Hungry? Have refreshments if you wish. Malek, I would invite you to sit with us and snack, but I know your distaste for removing your weapons and how hard it is to sit while wearing swords.”
“Especially hard on your upholstery,” Malek murmured, not moving from his spot.
“Ah, yes. I haven’t forgotten the split cushion incident. Not so egregious a faux pas as when General Tonovan decided to entertain here while I was away.”
“Is that what he called swiving your servants?”
“It’s what I call it. You know my distaste for uncouth language.”
Jak looked at his mother, wondering what she thought of all this. It wasn’t the torture and interrogation he’d expected—at least not yet—but it felt surreal and dangerous, like the eerie calm before a storm. Something clanked as the scientist made adjustments on the apparatus, and Jak envisioned being locked into that chair for an alchemical interrogation. Or experimentation. There were stories of mage scientists stealing human children off the streets or even away from their homes to test their magical gizmos on them. Or simply study them like lab rats.
“Have you heard any news on the key yet?” Uthari asked Malek.
“Not yet. I offered an enticing enough reward that I expect it will turn up soon, but if you wish, I’ll return to Bakora to search for it myself.”
“It is imperative that we find it, if indeed the portal will not operate without it.” Uthari focused on Mother. “Or do you think it’s possible to replicate the key? I know we’re unable to work dragon steel, but could a replica be made of some lesser material?”
“I don’t know for certain,” Mother said, “but that seems unlikely.”
Uthari sighed. “I concur.”
“We’ll get it, Your Majesty,” Malek said.
“Of course.” Uthari looked at Mother. “I’ve brought you here because I assume that activating the portal, even once we have this key, will not be as simple as propping it up in the courtyard and waving our hands. I require that you stay here long enough to figure out how it works. I understand there was little in the journal about that.” Uthari lifted his eyebrows toward Malek.
“Little,” Malek agreed. “The journal deals mostly with locating it.”
“I am pleased that you were able to find it.” Uthari nodded to Mother. “My time left in this world may not be infinite, even with magical intervention, and I should like to see my legacy left firmly in place. Can you guess what I seek?”
Jak blinked. What he sought besides the portal itself? What more was there? The dragons? That was what Father had hoped to find. Possible allies to change the course of the world.
“And why I was so pleased when you of all people took up the quest?” Uthari added softly.
Mother studied his face, but Jak couldn’t tell if she was as puzzled by the question as he. She looked toward the scientist and his contraption for a thoughtful moment, then back to Uthari. “Jitaruvak?”
“Jitaruvak.” He smiled at her. “Or, as it’s referenced in most ancient texts, the immortality herb.”
Jak had never heard of it.
“It’s reputed to exist on the dragon home world of Ezarith,” Mother said. “Our legends of those times say that dragons brought it here to extend the lives of the humans who worked with them. Whether those humans were slaves or colleagues is fuzzy and depends on the interpretation of the texts, but the ones selected supposedly lived until they were killed, never dying of old age or disease. As long as they continued to receive the herb regularly.”
“Supposedly?” Uthari arched his brows.
“There is some evidence in the fossil record to suggest these stories have truth to them.”
“And there is even a fossil of the Jitaruvak herb.” Uthari rose, walked to a bookcase, and picked up a chunk of rock. He brought it over and set it on the table before her. The rectangular hunk—some ancient mud or tar that had locked a branch with fern-like fronds inside of it—did indeed look like a fossil.
“Yes. I believe that used to be in the Forgotten History Museum.”
“I acquired it from them.”
“You acquire many things,” Mother said, keeping her voice matter-of-fact.
“Only when it furthers my needs. I admit to having personal reasons for seeking immortality, but I seek this not only for myself. This could change the future of humanity. Imagine if the greatest wizards and scholars of the past centuries were still alive today. My quest, I assure you, is nobler than your husband’s was, to gather allies to start a war against our kind.” Uthari rested a hand on his chest. His pale eyes had gone frosty, and for the first time, some of his civility slipped as he glared at her, as if to punish Mother for the impudence of the man she had married.
Jak wished he’d sat beside her so he could more effectively glare back. It galled him that he couldn’t do anything to protect his mother from these people.
“So,” Mother said calmly, not noticeably worried by the frosty stare, “you need me not only because of my knowledge of the artifact but because I am an herbalist.”
“A noteworthy one. I’ve read your papers.”
“I assume I have no choice but to work for you.”
“Until the portal is operational and the herb is found and synthesized into a drug,” Uthari said. “I see no reason that you couldn’t return to your regular life after that. Or, if your work pleases me, stay in my city with a generous stipend and employment at our university if you wish.”
“I see.”
“It is not a prison sentence.”
“Just a loss of my freedom. And what of my son? If I agree to stay here, may he return to the university in Sprungtown? His new semester will start soon.”
Jak shook his head, though she wasn’t looking at him. He wouldn’t leave his mother here alone with these people. He didn’t trust Uthari for a second, didn’t believe that he wouldn’t have her killed as soon as she finished what he needed—or hand her over to that damn general to use as a toy.
“I believe he would cause trouble if he were permitted to return while you remained here. And I might then be forced to send someone to deal with him.” Uthari gave Malek a pointed look, reminding Jak that he didn’t know if Malek had been the one to kill his father. “Better that he stay here with you. I’m certain we can find some work for him.”
Jak imagined being thrown in with the laborers who’d been unloading cabbages. Never had he thought he’d so wish he could return to his classes in the fall, but he wouldn’t go without his mother.
“Will I be allowed to see him?” she asked.
“Of course. I am not a despot, despite what some terrene humans believe. I am only a practical man.”
“I see. It seems that I have little choice but to work for you.”
Jak had half-expected his mother to tell them to forget it, but he didn’t want to see her do that, not when it would only get her hurt. Better to go along with them until an opportunity for escape presented itself. And surely it must. Uthari couldn’t keep them penned up in a cell if he wanted them to study the portal. Sooner or later, they would get a chance.
“I am relieved that we understand each other,” Uthari said, “and I needn’t stoop to more draconian measures.”
“Will your trusted general leave us alone?”
Mother didn’t shiver, not exactly, but Jak eyed her, worried something had happened when she’d been taken away on the mageship for questioning.
“He spends more time in the field than in the castle,” Uthari said, “but I shall instruct him not to disturb you.”
“Good.”
“Generally, he prefers more youthful prey, so I wouldn’t think you’d excite him overmuch, but he will do as I say.”
Mother didn’t say good again. Judging by the tightening around her eyes, she wasn’t happy with the response. Jak didn’t like this line of discussion at all and found himself wanting to punch someone again. Tonovan ideally. He hoped the general lost his temper with Malek one day and got himself killed in that duel.
Malek’s eyelids had drooped halfway as he watched Uthari and Mother. Nothing had changed about his stance, but something about him reminded Jak of a panther poised to spring. At his master? Probably not. Maybe he was fantasizing about killing Tonovan too.
“Why do you employ such a monster?” Mother asked, not bothering to hide the accusation in her tone.
Jak tensed, worried that she would anger Uthari, and he would lash out with magic.
But Uthari chuckled. “It is good to have someone powerful and rational with a deadly reputation on your side—” he extended a hand toward Malek, “—but it is also good to have someone powerful and volatile and unpredictable on your side. My enemies never know what Tonovan will do.”
“Nor your prisoners,” Mother murmured.
“Thus creating ease for me.” Uthari rose. “It is time for my treatment. Malek, see them to suitable rooms.”
Jak and Mother stood and walked toward the door, but Malek lifted a hand in front of Mother, making her stop. He flipped his palm upward, like a merchant waiting to be paid, and gazed expectantly into her eyes. She hesitated. Jak had no idea what Malek wanted.
“Give it to me, or I’ll take it.” Malek sounded more amused than angry.
Mother sighed and slid a hand into her pocket, withdrawing a vial of some dark-blue liquid. It must have come out of one of the racks of substances by the apparatus. The scientist blinked in surprise, glanced at his vials, then hurried over to take it. Jak had no idea what it was, but maybe Mother had been thinking of glues and climbing walls to escape again.
“You’ve a keen eye, Malek.” Uthari also sounded amused. “Never would I have expected a professor to have kleptomaniacal tendencies—or the quick hand of a pickpocket.”
“I’m told—” Malek glanced at Jak, “—that they’re a quirky family.”
“Meaning we should keep an eye on the boy too?”
“I would.” Malek nodded for them to continue to the exit.
“Attend me after you’ve settled them into rooms,” Uthari said. “We have a few things to discuss.”
“I will.”
Chapter 14
14
Malek returned to Uthari’s suite after leaving Professor Freedar and her son in rooms that had been prepared for them in the castle. He’d instructed the guards to watch the door around the clock and ensure they went nowhere without supervision.
Even if she had implied she would go along with Uthari’s wishes, and had been careful to keep her thoughts still in their presence, Malek knew she had escape in mind. Earlier, he’d caught her thinking of ways to get out of the city and also get the portal away from Uthari. That she’d snatched some chemical that could presumably assist her with such a fantasy only heightened his certainty that she didn’t intend to work mindlessly for them.
Not that this was surprising. When Uthari had instructed Malek to keep an eye on her, certain she would lead them to the portal, he’d researched her and read much of the work she’d published before leaving her career. Everything had been academic, related to the study of plants and her experiments in the field, and she didn’t have a history of making trouble, but her late husband had been another story. He’d had ties to movements that wanted to oust wizards from power and break up the kingdoms. How much she’d known about that or empathized with him was difficult to know, but Malek doubted Uthari’s plan to offer her lucrative employment in exchange for obedience would work.
Her son’s thoughts were easier to read, and he’d been peering down every hallway and into every room they passed, mentally mapping the castle. Malek knew less about eighteen-year-old Jak than his mother, but he would assume the boy was as intelligent as she was. He didn’t blame them for plotting an escape, but he couldn’t allow it. Even if a small part of him wanted to see what Freedar would have used the chemical for. He was still amused that she’d somehow put Tonovan’s soap and lubricant to use.
Enter, Uthari spoke into his mind as he approached the gold doors again, and they opened for him.
Malek cleared away the notions of finding the prisoners amusing from his mind. Though he’d long ago learned how to wall off his thoughts so that no other mage could read them, he occasionally wondered if Uthari was an exception. It was possible his age and experience simply made him good at reading faces and guessing the motivations of men, but he might have some way of getting around the mental defenses of his zidarr. After all, he’d been the one to supervise Malek’s training and teach him much of what he knew about magic. Numerous weapons masters had taught him combat, but his skills as a wizard he’d learned from the best in the field.
Inside the suite, Uthari now rested on the chair at his apparatus, leaning back as the doctor slid a needle into a vein in his arm. Above him, the strange medicines in his machine gurgled as they mixed and combined to form the life-extending substance that Uthari depended on.
They are comfortable and secured in their rooms? Uthari continued to speak telepathically. Though he trusted his doctor, some plans he kept only to his closest confidants.
Yes. Malek also replied silently.
They do not plan to cooperate. The boy is determined to help his mother escape. She is motivated to protect him, but she will also search for opportunities to get away and plans to work halfheartedly for me until then. I do not know where they believe they will escape to, since it would be a simple task to find them again in their home city. Do you believe a nomadic life of always watching behind your back could be more appealing than working for me earning a better wage than she previously did?
You know I do not believe so.
Yes, I trust you remember your youth and what it was like. You are still a young man.
At forty-five, and after more than thirty years of training, Malek would not consider himself young, but to Uthari, anyone under a hundred was a toddler.
I do remember. I confess it was with great satisfaction that I broke King Werok’s neck to escape being killed for my talent. During the years I fled from his hunters and zidarr, I came to hate him a great deal.
He was a fool not to see that you were not too old to learn and that you needn’t be killed. But a coward such as he was afraid to train a wild one with the potential to be his superior. Uthari smiled at whatever memory he had of thirteen-year-old Malek, orphan and runaway. Just remember also that Zaruk knows how his father died and has never ceased to loathe you.
As many do. Malek wasn’t blithe or indifferent to the threats out there, to all the enemies who were constantly plotting to see him dead, and he maintained his wariness everywhere he went, but he was accustomed to it. The threat of danger kept him honed and added interest to his life.
But not the professor.
Malek arched his brows, surprised by the comment.
When Tonovan leered at her, she stepped closer to you. Have you done something to win her trust?
No. I believe you are misinterpreting a minute action. If she was afraid of Tonovan, it would make sense for her to stand behind me.
Perhaps.
Her son has guessed that I was sent to kill his father. It is likely she believes the same thing and would stab a dagger in my heart if she had the opportunity.
You have not corrected her?
Malek grew still, barely breathing as Uthari narrowed his eyes to slits to regard him.
I did not realize you knew there was a truth to be corrected, Malek said carefully.
You think I don’t know that Tonovan did it? That he then lied to me and blamed it on you because you were there and because he knew the professor’s death was not what I wished? Had he been allowed to live and continue his work, we might have had that portal—and that herb—years ago. I was furious.
I remember.
Had I known that night that Tonovan killed the man, I might have killed Tonovan myself. But he blamed you, and when you returned to the palace, you did not deny it. Why, Malek? Uthari’s eyes were still slits, still locked on Malek as he ignored the concoction flowing down a tube and through the needle into his veins. You let me punish you for that.
It would have been his word against mine. There was no one else in that office, no other witness whose mind you could read.
You didn’t think I would have believed you? Tonovan has lied many times to me. As far as I know, you never have.
That was not entirely true. There were truths Malek had kept to himself over the years. A man had to have a few secrets, even a zidarr man. The Code speaks of honor. To me that means not tattling on a colleague.
You hate Tonovan. And he tattled on you.
He is not zidarr.
Malek.
Malek twitched a shoulder. He is a colleague. We must work together.
You are too honorable for your own good at times.
Not sure if that was praise or admonition, Malek asked, When did you find out? You didn’t know that night.
It was more than a year later. Tonovan was half-drunk and speaking of all the reasons I should send you away and replace you with Gorsith.
Malek snorted. He had nothing against Gorsith, a fellow zidarr who worked for Uthari, but the man wasn’t the brightest. If Tonovan wanted him as Uthari’s right-hand man, it was because he believed he could outthink and manipulate him.
The alcohol lowered his ability to block his thoughts. Uthari looked toward the table where the tea and whiskey still rested. It was always there when he brought in guests—and his own men—for exactly that reason. As he spoke, Tonovan thought of that night, and I saw the truth in his mind. I almost had him punished, but a year after the fact, it seemed ludicrous. Besides, he is not as faithful a comrade as you. He would grow resentful at punishment and perhaps lose his allegiance to me. I must take care with him, until a better candidate to lead my troops rises through the ranks. Uthari’s eyes were slitted again.
Maybe it was Malek’s imagination, but he thought the old king might be fantasizing about all the things he could do to Tonovan once that better candidate came along. Malek didn’t care one way or another if Uthari got rid of him. He could work with anyone, and the challenge of a rival kept him on his toes.
You, on the other hand, never resented punishment, even when you were young. Uthari’s gaze softened, grew almost father-like. You always believed that surviving pain made you stronger.
Because it does.
Of course. But let us not dwell on the past and instead focus on the future. I want that key so we can activate the portal, but I do not want to send you after it, unless we’re not able to get it through your artifact hunters. Danger is on the horizon, and I need you here right now. The professor must be kept alive and safe. I will put this charge on you.
You wish me to be her bodyguard? That surprised Malek. You believe that’s necessary? In your own castle?
Just as my rivals have learned of the portal and know that I have it, they will have learned of her and know that she is the secret to getting it to work. It is possible that others have as much knowledge as she, but nobody has her expertise in both areas that are of interest to me. Also, I’m not convinced that any of the archaeologists on her team or anywhere else know as much as she has learned about the portal. To lose her would be a great setback.
True.
She must be protected.
I understand.
I know that being a bodyguard is beneath you, but this is important.
All tasks assigned are worth performing to the utmost of one’s ability, Malek quoted from the Zidarr Handbook.
There is dignity in all work. Uthari, who’d probably helped write that handbook three hundred years earlier, smiled. Thank you, my friend. Watch the boy as well and test him when you get a chance.
Test him?
He has latent talent. You did not sense it?
No.
I felt it roiling up in him when Tonovan was leering at his mother. I was most curious if he would find a way to dredge it up and use it, but I believe he does not know the talent is there. I sensed nothing from the professor, so presumably it was a gift from his father.
He is old not to have had glimpses and become aware of mage abilities.
Some terrene humans loathe our kind so much that it would destroy their entire sense of self if they suddenly found out they were one of us. And of course, you know what happens to those who are not discovered at a young enough age to be brought into the fold.
I know well. Malek tilted his head. You wish him dead then?
He did not want to kill Professor Freedar’s son. He was already annoyed with himself for stepping away and not foreseeing that Tonovan would kill her colleague. If they wished the professor to genuinely assist them, they could not kill everyone she cared about.
Not now. As you’re aware, we need to convince her to study the portal in earnest. I do not believe the key alone will be all that is required to unlock its secrets. If we take everything from her, she’ll have no reason to cooperate. Perhaps, if the boy’s abilities are minor and he represents no threat, he need never be destroyed. If his talent develops into something that could be used as a weapon… Uthari spread his palm toward the ceiling. Just as you have your Zidarr Handbook, we have our Wizard Handbook. No mage who could become an enemy to our people and our way of life may be allowed to live.
I’ve read it.
Naturally. I do wish you to test him. Find out if he will be a threat.
I understand.
I also wish you to convince Freedar that it is in her interest to do as we wish, to try her hardest to find out how to operate the portal for our benefit.
Convince her? Through torture? At Uthari’s behest, Malek had tortured people for information before, but he did not like the idea of hurting the professor. He’d never liked torturing women, and she was… he didn’t know what, but he liked her creativity and determination to free herself—by using whatever mundane household products she could put to her use.
Uthari’s eyes narrowed again, and Malek reinforced the walls around his mind. He would not disobey Uthari, but he also did not wish Uthari to doubt him. If he wanted the professor tortured, Malek would do it.
That may not be necessary. After all, she stepped closer to you.
Malek snorted again. I can’t believe you see any significance in that.
See if you can win her trust. I care not whether she works for you or for me, only that I’m able to find that plant and bequeath the world a worthy legacy. Immortality for our kind. You deserve to live a long life, Malek, without need for all this. Uthari flicked his fingers to indicate the doctor’s contraption.
Malek was positive that some enemy’s blade would find his back—or some fireball that he wasn’t strong enough to defend against would engulf him—long before he was in danger of dying of natural causes, but if Uthari had some fantasy of them working together for centuries to come, so be it. One had to humor old men—old mentors.
Winning the trust of a woman? This may be the first task you have given me that I am… uncertain I am capable of. You know I interact little with people. Especially female people. Since marriage was forbidden by the Zidarr Code, lest the love of another cause divided loyalties to one’s monarch, Malek had avoided situations that might lead to temptation.
I admit, I’m amused at the idea of you trying to woo a woman. A smile stretched Uthari’s lips.
You wish me to woo her? That was even more extreme a measure than Malek had envisioned. Your Majesty, they fear me. The mother and the boy. I am zidarr. As you have made me.
Women don’t mind a fearsome reputation, so long as you’re not cruel to them. But I’ll not ask you to play Vereth to her Vira. That is not what you’ve been trained for. There was that smile again. Uthari truly seemed amused by this whole notion. I believe if you simply stand at her side as a bodyguard, she will come to trust you.
You’re not going to arrange for people to attack her so she runs to hide behind me, are you? Malek believed the professor might be the type to hurl chemical smoke concoctions—or soap concoctions—at her enemies rather than hiding.
I am not. But as I said, I fear that may happen regardless. Double the reward for that key. The sooner we get the portal working, the easier our lives will be. I will increase security in the city and around the castle, but never forget that the other kings have zidarr, and they’re trained as well as you.
I am aware.
You are dismissed, my friend. Uthari closed his eyes and leaned his head back as the last drips of his medicine entered his bloodstream. His patient doctor, who’d been politely looking out the window instead of watching them while they spoke telepathically, nodded to Malek as he left.
He was the only one to see a very unfamiliar expression on Malek’s face, the expression of being daunted. The professor very likely wanted to kill him. Her son would be happy to help—and now Malek had been charged with testing him for mage talents. He could not do that without them noticing. How was he supposed to manage to win the professor’s trust in the midst of that?
Lieutenant Sasko hated camels. More specifically, she hated riding them, and she cast a few longing looks at the magecarts that floated ahead of their unit in the caravan plodding northward. But the two they had reserved were for gear and supplies—and Dr. Fret, who’d snagged a ride by saying she had to mix up new burn ointment and tuck away her fresh bandages, herbs, and medications into first-aid kits. Funny how much lounging and snoring went on during that task.
“Looking most excellent, LT,” a familiar young man called, ambling past their unit on his camel. He made a lewd sign and leered at Sasko’s chest.
She dredged his name up from her memory. “Suck your left teat, Rover!”
Thorn Company was traveling north with the Red Sabers, a similar-sized mercenary unit that had been renting camels at the same time as Captain Ferroki and Sasko. The handful of merchants also making the trip were delighted to have such well-armed company, given that the Cracked Flats between Perchver and Amuri were frequented by bandits. Originally, the company had planned to head north on one of the public ferries that ran along the coast—as the day heated up, Sasko cast longing looks toward the sparkling blue sea a half mile to their left—but Ferroki had changed her mind that morning. She’d said she had a bad feeling about going through with their original—and publicly recorded—plan now that someone might be after them.
“I’d rather have you suck it for me,” came the return call, the twenty-something merc pulling open his vest to show off his chest for her.
His camel lurched to go around a pothole in the old road, half hidden by brown palm fronds and dust that scattered the pavement, and he almost pitched off its hump. Only a quick grab for its reins kept him from landing head-first on the ground.
“Idiot,” Sasko muttered.
“You’re not interested?” Ferroki asked, her dark eyes glinting with amusement. “He has nice muscles, and younger men tend to be spry.”
“Your droll wit is a delight to all, Captain.”
“Yes, that’s in our services brochure.”
“Thorn Company, available for military maneuvers, strategic consultation, and droll wit, all at one low price?”
“Precisely.”
Sasko hoped there wasn’t a brochure, but she wasn’t positive. Sergeant Words kept saying they would get higher quality and better-paying gigs if they worked on marketing their services more. She’d convinced the captain to have business cards made. Who knew what else was in the captain’s lap desk? Usually, it was filled with maps and dossiers on other armies and mercenary outfits, but brochures could have found their way in.
After recovering his balance, Rover urged his camel into a trot so he could catch up with the rest of his company. He drew even with Rookie Tezi, her blonde hair gleaming in the morning sunlight, and called something that was doubtless lewd over to her and rubbed his chest—his vest was still open to show off his muscles. Sasko rolled her eyes. The idiot probably thought half of their company would be happy to jump off to the side of the road for a quickie with him. As if the proliferation of cactuses and other thorny vegetation wouldn’t make that an even less appealing experience than usual.
Whatever he said prompted a startled look from Tezi. She nudged her camel’s flanks and hurried to catch up with Sergeant Tinder and a couple of others, though they didn’t acknowledge her. Before the move, she’d been riding alone, probably not by choice.
Sasko sighed. “You think they’ll ever accept her as one of the group?”
“Probably after she saves someone’s life,” the captain said.
“You think that will ever happen? She can barely keep her sword up for two minutes without her little arm falling off.”
“She’s getting stronger, and she’s a fair shot.”
“I don’t know why you took her in. You never take people in who don’t have prior military experience. Being experienced and capable is the only thing that keeps us in demand. Semi demand.” Sasko grimaced, stopping herself lest she insult the captain.
The company had a good reputation among those who could accept that hiring a unit of female soldiers wasn’t a plan doomed to fail, and Thorn Company often got repeat work, but those willing to take a chance on them were few and far between. Usually, they ended up working for other women with means. In the years Sasko had been with the unit, they’d done three jobs for Queen Aryania, one of only two female kingdom rulers in the skies. Aryania understood what it was like to be underestimated for one’s sex, but that hadn’t kept her from using the company like cannon fodder. They’d been lucky to survive those assignments and not without casualties, but she paid better than most.
“Determination goes a long way,” Ferroki said. “The bear tenacious enough to climb to the top of the tree for a beehive is rewarded with honey.”
Sasko kept herself from rolling her eyes. She respected the captain and knew she liked her platitudes from the ancient fables, but she used that one a lot.
“Besides,” Ferroki added, “she may not decide to stay once she learns enough to take care of herself.”
“She may not stay? What are we training her for then?”
“Because we can.”
“Are you putting that in the brochure too? Free food and training and pay. No need to stick around once things get tough.”
As usual, Ferroki refused to rise to the bait. She only gave Sasko that indulging smile, one usually reserved for the very young and the very addled.
“I doubt she has anywhere else to go,” Sasko said more seriously. “That’s the story for most of us, isn’t it?”
“You’re only here basking in the radiance of my leadership because of a lack of more interesting job offers elsewhere?”
“A lack of family and obligations elsewhere.” Since her mother had died, her colleagues had become her family. Sasko had never known her father, and had no idea if he was alive out there, but she didn’t much care. Her only goal was to earn enough to buy a little home in a quiet town by the ocean and pay a handsome shirtless young man to nurse her when she grew too old to take care of herself. Mercenaries had to have goals.
“Hm.” Ferroki’s gaze shifted toward the side of the road.
Captain Lugurt, leader of the Red Sabers, had pulled his camel off into the pale cracked dirt to wait for them. Bald, beefy, and approaching sixty, he had a face dotted by dozens of small scars, as if an explosive had blown up in front of him, peppering him with shrapnel. More than once.
“I will issue a warning to you, Captain.” Lugurt lifted his chin, gazing aloofly at them.
“Go ahead.” Ferroki gestured for him to bring his camel up to the side of hers.
“If he says anything about teat-sucking, I’m clobbering him,” Sasko muttered.
“Weren’t you the one to bring that up?”
“Yes, but only because the kid was cute.”
“I knew you thought so.”
Sasko didn’t bother denying it. The captain knew she wasn’t opposed to sex now and then. She just had no interest in relationships. Having the husband she’d fallen for at a young age sell her into slavery to pay off gambling debts had taught her not to trust anyone that much ever again.
“This guy has more warts than a toad,” Sasko said.
“Those are scars.”
“Warty scars.”
Lugurt must have caught a few words, for he curled a distasteful lip as he fell in beside them. “Gossip? I suppose I should expect nothing less from women.”
“Gossip would be if we were discussing how poorly you fare with women or whether your wife is cheating on you,” Ferroki said. “Discussing your appearance in front of you is considered razzing or perhaps taunting.”
“Wise things to do to a man carrying big weapons and leading a mercenary unit larger than yours.”
“You make a salient point. The lieutenant apologizes. What warning do you bring?”
Sasko had no interest in apologizing, but Ferroki was more diplomatic than she and kept the company out of trouble with rivals, for the most part, so Sasko didn’t naysay her.
“We intend to put in a competitive bid for the job King Zaruk is offering,” Lugurt said. “If you know what’s best for you and your unit, you won’t try to undercut us.”
“Oh?”
Sasko had no idea what he was talking about, and she didn’t think the captain did either. That morning, all they’d been focused on was getting out of Perchver before more soldiers showed up to attack them. If word had gone out about a new job up for bids, Sasko hadn’t heard about it.
“Just because Zaruk has invited numerous companies to his castle doesn’t mean he’ll hire more than one. And we’re the one.” Lugurt thumped a fist to his chest.
“Working for the kings is dangerous,” Ferroki said. “They tend to pit you against other kings—and their zidarr.”
Lugurt’s lip curl returned. “We’re not afraid to battle magic users. We’re crafty enough to figure out ways to avoid going head to head against them.”
Sasko doubted it but didn’t say so.
“I’ll keep your warning in mind, Captain,” Ferroki said.
“Remember, you undercut us, and there’ll be a price to pay.” Lugurt squinted at her, then slapped his camel on the flank, and it took off at the dromedary version of a trot.
“You think he knows we don’t have plans to bid on that job and are just on the way back north to our headquarters?” Sasko asked.
“I’m sure he doesn’t. Captain Lugurt has always been fond of jumping to conclusions.”
“I don’t suppose you’d field the idea of going up there and selling that medallion to King Zaruk?”
“You know I won’t. I said I’d keep it for the professor until she returns for it, and I will.”
“Even if it means being hunted down by the people looking for it?”
“I have a plan to hide it so they can’t sense it. Again.” Ferroki’s face grew bleak. “I wish we hadn’t been attacked while visiting Sorath. I never would have intentionally dragged him into trouble.”
“He may have survived.”
“Even if he did, his home didn’t. Last night, I went back to check it and see if… if he made it out. Or didn’t.”
“You did? Without telling anyone?” Sasko touched her chest. She was second-in-command. The captain was supposed to tell her everything, not go skulking off in the night by herself. For that matter, if someone did need to skulk, she was supposed to send one of the troops.
“I had to know,” Ferroki said quietly. “If he didn’t make it, because of me…”
Sasko squinted at her. “I know you said you’d never been involved with him, but are you sure you two never discussed, uh, teats?”
Ferroki blinked. “Is that a euphemism?”
“Yeah. I think the mercenary handbook has rules about asking your CO if she has deep and meaningful feelings for a competitor.”
“But teat talk is permissible?”
“It’s not explicitly forbidden.”
“Interesting.” Ferroki fell silent.
Maybe she wouldn’t answer. It was none of Sasko’s business, but as long as she’d known the captain—more than fifteen years now—she’d never openly had a romantic relationship. Not even secretly, to the best of Sasko’s knowledge. She’d assumed Ferroki was dedicated to her work or not that interested in intimacy. A lot of the women in the unit were like that, or had been—like Sasko—abused or hurt in some way and had no interest in taking that risk again. Some of the mercenaries had lovers or even farm husbands near their small headquarters in Rapuchi Roost, but with the company out in the field for two-thirds of the year, that put a strain on anything long-term. Of course, if Ferroki had ever had a relationship with Sorath—Colonel Sorath, leader of another mercenary outfit and, therefore, competition—there would have been even more reason for strain.
“We never discussed such things,” Ferroki finally said. “You can’t have a relationship with someone you might end up facing on a battlefield one day.”
“It would bring a new dimension to the term lovers’ quarrel.” Sasko tilted her head curiously. “Would you have? If he’d been a merchant or caravan driver?”
“I doubt he would have been as appealing if he’d been a merchant or caravan driver,” Ferroki said dryly.
“Ah, so there is appeal.”
“Haven’t you seen him with his shirt off?”
“No, but his cheek scar is sexier than Wart Face’s up there.”
Ferroki shook her head. “We’ve just gotten along well over the years when we’ve crossed paths. That’s all.”
“When your paths crossed and he was shirtless?”
“That was only one time in the public baths in Veru’uk.”
“Uh huh.”
“Are you razzing or perhaps taunting me, Lieutenant?”
“Maybe.”
“I’m certain the mercenary handbook forbids that.”
“I don’t remember it being mentioned.”
“It’s under proper decorum and respect for your superior officer.”
“Hm.”
“Like I said, nothing ever came of it.” Ferroki turned a wistful gaze out toward the sea. “It was just nice having someone to talk to about the business who perfectly understood the business.”
“I imagine so.” Sasko didn’t mention that Ferroki could talk to her if she needed a confidante. Sometimes, Ferroki did, but other times, she kept her thoughts to herself, especially if she didn’t want the company to worry.
A ferry chugged past their caravan, hugging the placid waters near the coast as it steamed north.
Sasko grunted. “I think that’s the ship we booked passage on.”
“Yes.”
“The camel-free ship. We could be lounging in hammocks in our cabins right now instead of sitting atop grumpy furry beasts with our inner thighs chafing.”
“You’re squeezing too hard if there’s chafing.”
“Thanks for the tip. I—”
A fiery orange explosion ripped from the back of the steamer, the distant boom reverberating over the desert. Smoke clouded the air all around the craft, but that didn’t keep them from seeing the entire boiler blow dozens of feet into the sky before splashing down behind the ferry.
“Thanok’s hairy backside,” Sasko breathed, stunned. Her camel veered off the road to nosh on a prickly pear cactus, and she barely noticed.
The smoke cleared enough to see that the entire back end of the ferry had been blown out. It was taking on water and already starting to sink. It was too far away to see if there were people floating helpless—or dead—in the water, but Sasko assumed so. At the least, the entire boiler crew had likely been killed in that explosion. And anyone with cabins in the rear of the ferry.
“Where were our cabins, Captain?” Sasko asked in a squeaky voice, certainty filling her with dread.
Ferroki must have had the same thought, for the question didn’t surprise her. “In the back,” she said grimly.
“Are you sure you want to keep that medallion?”
“No. My plan is to wrap it in darkeye fabric—I’ve got some in our stronghold—shove it in a safe box, and bury it in the mountains miles from our headquarters.”
“I’ll help you dig. We all will.”
“Rider coming,” their rear picket called.
“What new delight is upon us?” Sasko muttered, quoting Egarath the Eternal.
They turned warily on their camels, hands on weapons as a horseback rider galloped to catch up with them. Or maybe the hooded and cloaked figure was merely someone else using the King’s Highway who wanted to pass the caravan as quickly as possible. Sasko doubted it.
The rider slowed his mount as he drew closer, the horse lathered and breathing heavily under the warm sun, but he didn’t lower his hood. It moved as he surveyed the back half of the caravan, then looked out toward the smoking steamer. A hint of a strong stubbled chin was visible in the shadows of the hood.
“This can only be trouble.” Sasko watched the rider’s visible hand in case he reached for a weapon.
“Vorzaz?” Ferroki asked.
Vorzaz? That was Colonel Sorath’s new name, wasn’t it?
“Yes, Captain,” he said, nudging his horse past the mercenaries in the back to join them. “I bring a warning.”
“I hope it’s less pissy than Lugurt’s warning,” Sasko said.
Sorath glanced at her but didn’t reply, instead focusing on Ferroki. “I need a word with you in private, Captain.”
Several of their people were close enough to overhear. Tezi, who hadn’t yet managed to shed her admirer from the Red Sabers, peered back at them.
“Of course.” Ferroki lifted a hand, as if she would reach out to him, but the distance would have made it difficult, and she let it drop. “I’m relieved you’re alive. When I went back to your shop last night, you weren’t there. There was little more than smoldering ruins.”
“You came back to check on me? I’m touched.”
“I worried you’d been touched by no fewer than a dozen daggers and magelocks.”
“I’m a better fighter than that. I never let more than six enemy weapons touch me in a single battle.”
“Hence your longevity.”
“Hence.”
“I appreciate you buying time for us to escape,” Ferroki added softly.
Sorath inclined his head, not removing the hood. Not surprising since his face was well-known among mercenaries, and more than Thorn Company was present.
“We need to talk about more than my ruined shop,” he said.
Ferroki nodded and rode off to the side of the road. Sasko, having no intention of being left out, tugged on the reins to convince her camel to leave behind the succulent succulent.
Sorath had started to speak but paused when Sasko rode up.
“She’s fine,” Ferroki said. “I don’t keep secrets from my second-in-command.”
“I gathered. I was looking at the cactus pad hanging from her camel’s lips.”
“Camels are like mercenaries,” Sasko said. “They rest and eat when they get a chance.”
“True.” Sorath lowered his voice. “Malek knows about the medallion and is after it.”
Sasko swore.
“I suppose I can’t be shocked,” Ferroki said, “but that’s worse than I was hoping.”
“He’s not coming himself, at least not yet,” Sorath said, “but he sent a message to the entire artifact-hunters guild.”
“Any chance that guild is as small as it sounds?” Sasko asked.
“There are more than two hundred members just in the greater Perchver area,” he said. “There’s some bleed over with the thieves’ guild.”
“Both being full of honorable and noble people only acquiring things for their rightful owners,” Sasko said.
“I’m in it.” Sorath tapped his pick to his chest. “A lot of people are going to be after you. More specifically, what you carry.”
“Including those who attacked last night?” Ferroki asked softly, regret in her dark eyes.
“Actually, that happened before Malek’s message, but it’s probably related. Malek may not be the only one who knows about it and is looking for it.”
“I can’t ditch it along the way,” Ferroki said. “I’m planning to bury it once we get back home. I have darkeye cloth there.”
“That might work,” Sorath said, “but I have a feeling it’s widely known by this point that you are in possession of the artifact. Even if you hide it, people may come after you to question you. With force.”
“Remind me to give that archaeology professor a punt in the ass if we meet up with her again,” Sasko said.
“Given that she was taken prisoner by Malek, I think she’s being punished enough,” Ferroki murmured.
The thuds of a camel running on hard earth interrupted them. Tezi rounded a patch of thorny shrubs and lifted a hand. “One of the other company’s scouts said there might be some trouble a couple of miles ahead, Captain. Sergeant Tinder sent me back to get you.”
“Oh, joy,” Sasko said.
Ferroki waved an acknowledgment toward Tezi and guided her camel back toward the road. “Are you going back to Perchver?” she asked Sorath.
“It won’t be safe for me there anymore,” he said, nudging his horse to follow their camels.
“I’m sorry we got you into our mess,” Ferroki said.
Sasko lifted a protesting finger. “It isn’t our mess. The archaeologists dumped their mess in our laps.”
Sorath shrugged under his cloak, neither of them paying attention to her. “It doesn’t matter. It’s not safe for me anywhere. That’s what happens once wizards with a vendetta go after you.”
“They may not know you’re alive yet.”
“If they don’t now, they will soon. It would be a disservice to you if I rode at your side to Amuri.”
“Maybe, but I’ll invite you to do it anyway, since there may be trouble up ahead.” Ferroki nodded toward Tezi and the rest of the caravan.
“You have two mercenary companies and a bunch of armed caravan guards. I doubt you’ll need my services.”
“I was thinking we’d offer you some protection, but…” Ferroki looked toward the sinking ship. “We may need each other.”
Chapter 15
15
Jadora sank down onto the sofa in the suite of rooms that she and Jak had been given. They were in the castle, only one floor down and a couple of hallways over from Uthari, a fact that did nothing to ease her mind. She tried to tell herself that it was good they were also close to the portal—from their windows, they could see it in a central courtyard below—so she could keep an eye on it. Normally, she wouldn’t have worried about someone making off with a heavy twenty-feet-in-diameter artifact, but the mages had proven they had no trouble moving it around.
“This room is bigger than our whole house.” Jak wandered from the parlor to one of two adjacent bedrooms. “So is this one. The bed is huge, but it looks tiny in that room. Is that a boulder-basher table? In case you get the urge in the middle of the night to knock balls into caves? And another seating area. There’s a bucket of ice and some kind of alcoholic drink in a bottle. Is this your room or mine? Maybe mine isn’t as luxurious.” He wandered across the parlor to check out the other bedroom.
Jadora closed her eyes, having little interest in their accommodations. Oh, she acknowledged this was better than the cell on the Star Flyer, but she didn’t appreciate the promise dangling in the air—from the lush velvet curtains to the gilded mirrors and expensive paintings to the kitchen stocked with crystal dinnerware and exotic fruits—that cooperation would be rewarded. All they had to do was sell their souls to their wizard overlord and serve him loyally until he no longer needed them. She didn’t believe for a second that Uthari would keep them around—and alive—longer than that, no matter what he said.
She’d heard of professors being selected from Sprungtown and other universities to teach at the mage academies and do research in the sky-city education systems, but none of those people ever returned, nor did they publish any new papers. It was possible they wrote articles for special mage-only journals that circulated only in the clouds, but speculation of their deaths or imprisonment ran rampant. All day, Darv’s face had haunted her mind, and she knew it would continue to do so for a long time.
“The other bedroom is just as big,” Jak reported. “It has a card table instead of a boulder-basher table.” He poked into the kitchen. “There’s all sorts of food in here. And what is this?” He opened a rectangular door within the cabinetry. “An icebox? It’s cold, but I don’t see any ice.” He checked the cabinets all around it. “No ice. Magically cold. I guess when they sell their mage trinkets to us normal humans down below, they keep the good stuff for themselves.”
“Magical iceboxes represent the good stuff?” she murmured.
“Obviously. Look, it’s full of cold cuts and… what are these? Bananas? I’ve heard of bananas, but they don’t grow anywhere on Agorval. I guess their mageships can fly them up to this latitude before they spoil. Or does their magic keep them fresh longer? Or maybe the icebox does. Mother, as long as we’re here, we can have experiences we’ve only read about in books.”
“Bananas and iceboxes. It’s worth being enslaved for such riches.”
Jak abandoned his explorations and sat in a chair across from her. “Don’t forget about the boulder-basher table. It looks like the balls reset themselves.”
Jadora was too weary and mournful to make jokes with him. She longed for sleep but dreaded the nightmares that would surely come.
“I’m just trying to take your mind off the situation,” Jak said softly. “I know we’re in trouble.”
“Thank you.” She forced a smile for him. It was her job to be strong for her son, wasn’t it? “Jakstor?”
He blinked. “You’re using my whole name? Am I in trouble?”
“No, but this is important, so I want you to listen.”
“Go ahead. I am.”
“I want you to know that none of this is your fault, all right?” She remembered him trying to put the blame on himself back in their cell, and that had been before Darv’s death. Even though he often used jokes and flippancy to hide his feelings—the same way Loran had—she knew he was sensitive under the occasionally goofy facade. He might be carrying guilt over this, just as she did.
Jak leaned forward in the chair, elbows on his knees, and studied his hands instead of looking at her. Damn it, that hesitation meant he was blaming himself.
“Some of it is my fault,” he said. “You never would have started this research if I hadn’t been a pain in the butt and threatened to run away from home and finish Father’s quest myself.”
“That was five years ago. You were just a boy.”
“But I meant what I said. And I think you knew it, and you gave in so I wouldn’t run off and get myself killed.”
“You couldn’t have known it would lead us to this end.”
“That’s because thirteen-year-old boys have the clairvoyance of rocks.” He forced a half smile. “Eighteen-year-old boys aren’t so great at foreseeing consequences either.”
“Forty-two-year-old women also have difficulty in that area.”
“Really? That’s depressing. I thought I’d be wise and sage by the time I was that advanced and decrepit of an age.”
“Ha ha.” She threw a couch pillow at him.
That earned another half-smile, but his eyes were haunted, and she feared she hadn’t changed anything. She missed the days when he’d been younger and it had been easier to fix his problems.
“Do you think we can talk freely in here?” Jak waved at the walls. “Or do they have a way to magically monitor us? Or maybe the guards are able to read our thoughts through the door. Do you think the ones in the hall are capable of that?”
“I don’t know.”
He rose to his feet, went to the door, and opened it.
From Jadora’s seat, the sleeve of a red uniform was visible. The guard turned toward Jak.
“Can you read our minds?” he asked, as if making casual conversation.
Jadora grimaced, hoping he didn’t get himself in trouble.
“Stay in your room,” the guard said. “Someone will come to prepare the evening meal for you.”
“Is that a no?” Jak asked.
The guard lifted a hand, but when he pushed Jak back into the room, it was with magic, not a physical touch. The door swung shut in his face.
Jak shrugged and returned to his seat. “I don’t think those two can read minds. To test one, I deliberately thought disparaging thoughts about the size of his… drawing tool.”
Jadora shook her head. Sometimes, Jak’s humor was so similar to Loran’s that it filled her with painful nostalgia. And sometimes, it made her worry that his mouth would get him punched in the nose. That, and other consequences, had befallen Loran more times than she could count.
“Maybe he’s too professional to be goaded into punishing a prisoner because of insults to his drawing tool,” she said.
“I doubt it. Not if General Tonovan is an example of the quality of leadership in this place.”
The memory of Darv’s death—and Tonovan’s smug face—sprang to mind, and Jadora only shook her head again. Maybe the same memory came to Jak, for he sank back into the chair, his expression growing somber again.
“How are we going to get out of here with the portal, Mother?” he whispered, then glanced warily at the walls.
“I don’t think that’s going to be possible.”
“We have to escape.”
“I know. We will. But I don’t see how we can carry the portal out of here.” She scratched her jaw. “Maybe we don’t have to, at least right now. They don’t have the key.”
Jak removed his hat and fingered the spot where it had been, where he’d carried it all those years without knowing what it was. In truth, Jadora hadn’t known for certain either, not until she’d seen the hole. Loran’s notes had mentioned how important his favorite hat was to him and that it was key in his success as a world-traveling artifact locator, so she’d guessed early on that the medallion was tied in with the portal, but she hadn’t known how critically until that moment. If she had, she would have made Jak keep that hat in a vault instead of wearing it to school every day.
“They’ll get it though,” Jak said. “Malek is on it. And he’s… Shylezar’s scales, you saw him fight, right?”
“Yes.”
“Did you see his blades? When they’re not glowing, they’re blue. Is that an alloy?”
“Lesser dragon steel. As with the dragon steel the portal is made from, it’s too hard for human magic or technology to melt and work, but dragons made weapons from the material back when they visited our world. The blades were given as gifts to human servants who loyally fought at their sides in battle. These days, the weapons are handed down from one generation to the next in wealthy families—wealthy mage families—though some are obtained in battle, usually by slaying the supreme weapons master who’s carrying them around.” Jadora hesitated. “I know nothing about Malek’s heritage, but he seems like someone who may have gotten his weapons the latter way.”
“Yeah.” Jak grimaced. “You don’t really think those mercenaries are going to risk their lives to keep him from getting the medallion, do you? We barely even spoke to them, and they were just terrenes, like us. And people who kill other people for coin. They probably sold it as soon as they got back to the mainland.”
“It’s possible. Or they might have chucked it in the ocean. I wonder if that would keep the mages from finding it. The artifact radiates so much power that I’m sure someone like Malek could sense it, but the medallion is much smaller.”
“Mother, we don’t want it lost forever so nobody can use the portal. We want to use it.” Jak touched his chest. “I want to use it. To change things. To make the world better for our people. That’s what this was always about. For my whole life, Father was working on this, so he could go through and find…” He glanced at the walls. “You know what he hoped to find. And what I hope to find.”
“I thought you just wanted to ride a dragon.” Jadora smiled, remembering an entire summer when he’d been eight or nine where he’d voiced that fantasy frequently, usually while galloping around the kitchen on her broomstick.
“Of course I want to ride a dragon—who wouldn’t?—but I want them to come fix… the world.”
“I know. But if the mages are the first ones to lead a party to the dragon home world and make an alliance with them…” She imagined Uthari explaining how superior mages were to the piddling humans that still crawled around on the earth and talking the dragons into helping him.
“No way would dragons align with them. They’re pompous jerks, and we’re delightful.”
“Hm.”
Jadora had no idea if dragons would find mages or mundane humans delightful. Humanity’s interactions with them had been so long ago, forgotten in all but legends that had doubtless been altered over the centuries to suit the needs of each passing generation, that it was hard to know.
She knew Jak liked the tales that illustrated dragons as benevolent allies—and even she caught herself praying to Shylezar, the dragon god who supposedly protected humans—but just as many painted them as fierce predators who’d occasionally hunted humans. The truth was difficult to know, and there was the possibility that opening the portal that linked the two worlds could be a big mistake. Who knew what dragons had evolved into over the millennia? Nobody knew what they had truly been like. It was possible that humans had buried the portal on that volcanic island and hidden the records of its existence for a reason.
“Either way, we have to know,” Jak said. “We have to go through the gate first.”
“It might be easier later on, in a few years, when Uthari’s focus has shifted to other things.”
Or after he died. Jadora had picked up on the significance of the contraption in his parlor, though surprisingly, she’d only been familiar with a few of the medicines in the racks beside it. Others had to have been alchemical instead of mundane. She knew of no natural substances here on Torvil that could extend life.
“They want us to figure everything out,” Jak said, “and I really want to figure it out too. Don’t you? Once we get it working, maybe they’ll send us through first to see if we get eaten as soon as we reach the other side.”
“You sound hopeful.”
“More about going through first than being eaten. Oh, if we took the key through when we went, would that mean they couldn’t follow?” His forehead crinkled. “Or does it only work and let you through if the key is in the keyhole?”
“I’m not sure. Loran’s notes on the actual operation of the artifact were scant.”
“If we could activate it and take the key through with us, they wouldn’t be able to follow.” His tone grew wistful. “We could escape mages forever.”
“And never see our home or the university again?”
“That wouldn’t be ideal. And it wouldn’t keep the mages from pestering all of humanity that remained. Unless we could somehow open the portal for everyone who wanted to leave.”
“Such thinking is a little premature when we don’t know what’s over there yet. Or even if the portal will work after all these centuries buried on a volcanic island.”
“I know. That’s why we have to go through and explore. And make maps. I could do that. They need to send me.” Jak rose and went to the window overlooking the courtyard. “Are you going to do what they asked? Try to figure everything out?”
“Even though I long to study it as much as you do, I don’t think I dare. It’s not as if I can learn how to operate the portal and then withhold the information from them.” Jadora joined him at the window. Darkness had fallen, but silver-blue lamps glowed in the courtyard, shedding their light on a handful of guards and the dark outline of the artifact. It lay on its side, as it had on the deck of the mageship.
“Maybe it wouldn’t be the worst thing to work with them for now,” Jak said. “We could figure out how to outsmart them later, after we get to go through.”
His willingness to entertain the idea concerned her. What she knew—and so far, the mages did not—was that Jak had studied the portal almost as assiduously as she had these last five years. And he’d worked at Loran’s side and learned from him in the years before his death. What if she refused to help Uthari, but Jak was lured into his service?
The door opened, and she pushed aside the thoughts.
Two female servants walked in, wearing the drab gray tunics and loose trousers of the palace staff and carrying trays. Interestingly, they wore removable magebands instead of slavebands, but their glazed expressions suggested they had them activated. Neither spoke. They simply extended their offerings.
One tray held Loran’s journal, and Jadora rushed over to grab it. The other was full of drawing pads, new notebooks, pens, charcoal pencils, measuring tools, and a sharpener that looked like it was made from gold.
Jak picked it up. “It’s like I’m being wooed by a wealthy dilettante.”
“These are from Zidarr Malek,” one of the women said in a monotone.
“So not a wealthy dilettante?” Jak picked up a couple of other tools on the tray, more familiar ones. They were the ones he’d had in his pockets when they’d been captured, and he smiled. “This is my lucky compass.”
“Sure to help you out of any scrapes we land in.”
“Maybe not that, but I’ve gotten good grades on assignments whenever I’ve used it.”
“I’m Jadora Freedar,” she told the servants, wondering if she could get through to them. If they were powerless up here, maybe they would be sympathetic to prisoners. And maybe they could be, if not allies, sources of information. “What are your names?”
One gazed blankly at her.
The other, her eyes slightly less glazed, responded. “I am Altrucia. It is not permitted for us to have conversations with you.”
“Neither of us?” Jak touched his chest. “I’m quite charming.”
“Zidarr Malek will come for you in the morning to supervise your studies,” Altrucia said without looking at him.
Without further comment, they walked out of the room, closing the door behind them.
“He’s coming to supervise us?” Jadora frowned. “Doesn’t he have enemies of his kingdom to slay?”
“Maybe he thinks those enemies will be coming for the portal, so he better stick around.”
“That’s a depressing thought.” Not only might she and Jak have to risk their souls working for King Uthari, but their lives could be in danger from his enemies.
“At least I’ll be armed to defend myself.”
“They didn’t return our weapons.” Nor the canisters and vials from her collection, though that wasn’t that surprising. Jadora would have to look around for something else that would be helpful in escaping.
“I meant this.” Jak held up the pencil sharpener. “Gold is heavy. And look at the nib on that fountain pen. It’s practically a spear.”
“I’m sure you’ll be menacing to any zidarr that Uthari’s enemies send.”
“They had better watch out for their eyeballs.”
Ahead of the caravan, a woman’s scream floated out of a village to the side of the main road. Tezi, after giving up on getting the others to include her in their conversations, had been dwelling on feelings of homesickness for a home she could never go back to and a family that was gone. But the scream ululating across the parched earth startled her out of her dreary reverie.
Fainter whimpers followed the scream. Another woman? Or the same one?
Tezi tightened her grip on her reins, torn between wanting to help whoever was in pain and struggling with memories that stampeded to the forefront of her mind. Memories of her own village being visited by a zidarr and two mages selecting pretty females for their king—after testing the wares for themselves. The idea of facing a similar situation again terrified her, and she hoped this was nothing like that.
From the middle of the caravan, Tezi couldn’t yet see more than the outline of the village, a handful of tan dome houses and a two-story rectangular structure made from brick a hundred yards back from the highway. A sign posted at the turnoff for the side road promised the Dilgar Gold Mines lay to the east and that this was the last place for travelers to get rest and a good meal.
The captain and lieutenant had caught up with Tezi and the rest of the caravan, the cloaked man riding behind them. Sorath, she realized, catching the glint of the sun on his pickaxe.
Surprisingly, nobody at the head of the caravan was turning off the road to check on the screams coming from the village. Why, because nobody was paying them to help? Tezi scowled. She knew she’d joined a company of mercenaries, but did that truly mean they wouldn’t assist people in need? People in pain?
Tezi pulled out her magelock, laid it across her lap, and urged her camel to pick up its pace. If they wouldn’t help, she would.
Up ahead, Sergeant Tinder and the grumpy captain from the other company reached the intersection and stopped their mounts. Good, maybe they would help.
They gazed toward the little village, Tinder pointing at people outside of the hotel. With cactus and prickly thorn bushes lining the road, Tezi hadn’t been able to see people over there before, but now, she could make out men on their knees. Their faces were pressed into the dirt, their hands tied behind their backs. Or bound with magic?
Her gut churned as she spotted someone else, someone out there watching the prisoners from the shade of the hotel wall. He wore a mage robe, the vibrant blue standing out against the faded brick building and the tan earth. The lack of a uniform meant he wasn’t one of the king’s soldiers, but that didn’t mean that others inside the hotel weren’t part of Zaruk’s army. There might even be zidarr in there, zidarr who would kill anyone who presumed to help. An entire company of mercenaries couldn’t expect to win against one of their kind, and even if they were somehow victorious, they would lose many of their troops.
Tezi’s heart sank, though she wasn’t surprised when Captain Lugurt shook his head and waved for his people to continue on. Another scream tore from a woman’s mouth—it sounded like she was on the second floor of the hotel—and several of the Red Saber mercenaries frowned over at the village, but they continued on, following their leader.
The women of Thorn Company looked back toward the captain, but none broke ranks to rush over to help. Tezi understood why, but it frustrated her. Nobody dared help, not against mages.
“Help us!” one of the men on the ground yelled to the caravan. “They’re raping our daughters, our wives. They—”
The mage lifted a hand, and the man broke off with a scream of pain, his back arching so hard it looked like his spine would break. Tezi shifted her magelock pistol, her heart slamming against her rib cage as she debated if she could get off a shot, if the mage would be too busy tormenting the man to defend himself. Maybe he wouldn’t see the blast coming until it was too late…
“Don’t, Captain,” came Sasko’s voice, a warning whisper. “Where there’s one mage, there’ll be a dozen more inside. Even if we did stop them, you know what the repercussions would be. And if we killed one, we’d be hunted down ourselves, every one of us slain as a lesson to the rest of the world.”
“We’ve killed mages before,” the captain said, her usually calm voice like ice. She’d also drawn her pistol and was contemplating the same shot as Tezi.
“In battle, hired by other mages. You know how the rules work. If we take one of them out on our own…”
Sobs came from the hotel, a woman begging her tormenter to stop.
“Leave us alone,” one of the other prisoners growled to the mage outside, rising up. “We’re not animals to be—”
Magic wrapped around him, forcing him to jerk and writhe in pain, the same as his comrade. The mage snarled that he’d kill them all if they didn’t shut up. They were already annoying him because they were delaying his turn.
His voice was young and cruel, and Tezi realized he might not be any older than she. Maybe younger. Was this a bunch of teenagers out for some sport?
Fury burned inside of her, threatening to erupt like the volcano. She was already a hunted woman in another kingdom; did it matter if she drew the fury of another king?
She stopped her mount behind a bush large enough to cover her moves and raised her pistol, aiming through the thorny branches. The mage was smirking, eyes glinting with pleasure as he tormented the men. He was so confident that the caravan wouldn’t dare come over to stop him that he didn’t even look up.
Tezi aimed for his chest, then shifted the sights slightly to the left. The shoulder. That wouldn’t kill him, and maybe the rest of the company wouldn’t be punished for her choice to injure a mage.
But someone else in the caravan fired first, not a magelock but a black-powder weapon that unleashed its bullet with a thunderous crack. It struck the mage in the eye, blowing it out in bloody chunks that Tezi saw even from a hundred yards away. She also saw the shocked expression on the dead mage’s face as he pitched sideways, crumpling to the ground.
Tezi gaped over at the captain, certain she’d been the one to fire, but she didn’t have a black-powder weapon. It took her a second to realize who’d been responsible because he was gone, his horse empty of its rider. Sorath.
Shutters on a second-floor window of the hotel flew open with bangs. Two bare-chested youths with tousled hair appeared, first gaping down at their dead comrade and the imprisoned men still bound as they struggled to rise from their knees, and then out at the caravan.
“Do we help him?” Sasko asked. “Or—”
“Criminals!” one mage shrieked toward the road.
An eerie magical wind whipped up, shrieking like the slavemaster’s demons in the bard Versifero’s famous “Tempest in Hell.” The camels groaned and made high-pitched bleats as they stamped their feet.
The captain sprang from her mount and ran toward the hotel, darting through the brush instead of heading up the road. Sasko cursed and stayed back, yelling for the company to continue on and get up the hill before all the mages came out.
Tezi’s mount surged down the road, moving so abruptly she slid off. She landed in the dust as more camels streamed past, and rolled to the side so she wouldn’t be trampled. When she sprang to her feet, branches alongside the road clawing at her uniform, she didn’t try to chase her camel. If the captain was going to put herself in danger, Tezi couldn’t leave her. She also couldn’t turn her back on women in the same position that she’d been in before.
Yellow lightning bolts streaked across the blue sky over her head. They branched a dozen times and targeted several of the riders, mercenaries trying to obey their leaders’ orders to get out of the area. The mages were taking their anger out on them anyway.
A lightning strike took Dr. Fret in the back, hurling her from the supply cart. And killing her?
Tezi rose up from behind a bush and fired at one of the mages in the window. But those two were ready for an attack, one having created a defensive barrier in front of them. The charge from her magelock bounced off, striking a house across the road.
The mages were looking toward the highway and didn’t seem to see the cloaked figure run out of the brush behind the hotel and to the back door. As Sorath flung it open, he was almost bowled over by two naked women fleeing the building. After they passed, he charged inside.
The mage Tezi had fired at scanned the bushes, his hard gaze searching for her. She ducked low and maneuvered through the brush toward the hotel. The air crackled with power, her skin buzzing with its proximity, and the ground exploded scant feet to her side. Magic tore a dozen bushes from their roots, dirt and thorny limbs flying. The debris pelted Tezi as she scurried through the maze of cactuses and shrubs.
Another blast struck the ground, more like one of Tinder’s explosives than magic. It left a crater in her path and pummeled her again with dirt, stones, and plant matter. As she hurried around the hole, blood dripping from cuts on her face, she hoped Sorath was making progress—and that he didn’t run into any zidarr or mages too powerful for him to handle.
“There’s one in here!” came a male cry from the hotel.
Gunshots fired, and a man screamed. Sorath? One of the mages?
Tezi came out of the brush behind the hotel and almost ran into the captain.
“You were ordered to stay with the company,” the captain whispered harshly as she raced for the door.
Tezi ran right behind her. “My camel bolted.”
“You were supposed to bolt with it.” With her pistol in one hand and her sword in the other, the captain leaned through the doorway, checking inside before committing herself.
A whimper came from the first room.
“Stay down, girl,” the captain said and hurried into a dark kitchen, the shadows thick after the bright daylight outside.
Tezi entered after her, her eyes slow to adjust. She almost tripped over an upturned cauldron.
Gunshots sounded on the floor right above them, and she jumped. Another whimper sounded. A girl huddled—hiding—in a corner with a blanket wrapped around her body. She couldn’t have been more than thirteen or fourteen.
Footsteps thundered above, and something crashed to the floor. As Tezi and the captain entered a common area with tables and benches upturned everywhere, another crash sounded, and chunks of plaster from the ceiling rained down. The captain found a staircase and stepped over something to run up it. It was a young mage’s body, robes dark with blood and a huge hole in his forehead as if someone had struck him with a mallet. No, the pointy side of a pickaxe.
Swallowing, and trying not to think about repercussions, Tezi hurried up the stairs. A boom rattled the entire building. Lanterns fell from wall mounts, crashing to the wooden steps.
“You’re dead,” someone snarled, panting with pain around the words. “All of Zarlesh will avenge our deaths.”
As Tezi stepped off the stairs and into a hallway with open doors to bedrooms, she spotted the captain ahead and several bodies littering the floor. Some belonged to robed mages and some—Tezi stared in horror—belonged to young women.
A robed figure leaned out of a doorway the captain had already passed and thrust his hand toward her back. Tezi fired without thinking to aim for a nonvital target. The mage hadn’t seen her and never saw what hit him. At this close range, the blast from her pistol was deadly when it slammed into the back of his head. A second shot went off at the same time, striking him in the chest. The captain. She’d seen the threat after all.
The mage dropped dead to the floor. The captain nodded at Tezi, then turned and jogged through double doors at the end of the hall.
Only then did Tezi realize that all sounds of a fight had ended. A few gasps, sobs, and whimpers came from the bedrooms, but as she passed by and peeked inside, she saw only defenseless women. Those who had tormented them were either gone or dead on the floor.
One of the dead mages, a boy of fourteen or fifteen, had died with his glassy eyes open in shock. Had he not been half naked with his robe wide open, Tezi might have thought it a mistake, that he was a victim rather than a perpetrator.
“It’s clear, Tezi,” came the captain’s calm voice from the last bedroom.
Stepping carefully over the bodies, Tezi joined her inside, the air stinking of spent black powder. The room was more spacious than the rest, with a bathtub, a huge bed, and what had been a kiva fireplace before some explosive had warped it, hurling logs all over the room. The mage who’d been casting lightning bolts from the window lay dead, a hole in his forehead similar to the other one. His buddy was also down, sprawled out as if he’d been running for the door when someone came in.
Sorath. He stood in the center of the room, blood dripping from his pickaxe and his hand clenched in a fist around something. His pistol was holstered.
“Gather the others,” Sorath said to a woman in a torn dress hiding behind the bed. “Go outside and free your family.”
She threw a wild look at him, as if not sure if he was friend or foe, then scrambled over the bed and sprinted into the hallway.
“Your hood came off,” the captain told Sorath matter-of-factly, as if there weren’t bodies all over the floor around them.
“I wanted them to see me. Besides, it doesn’t matter. They’re all dead. I made sure of it.” Sorath’s eyes narrowed. “The dead don’t talk.” He looked at the captain and Tezi, and Tezi had the weird sense that he’d been making sure nobody was left alive to talk for their sakes rather than his.
“You know those who come to investigate will have ways to find out what happened and who was responsible anyway,” the captain said.
“Are you berating me when you and your rookie are in here with smoking guns?” He arched his eyebrows.
“They’re magelocks. They don’t smoke.”
“That’s why they’re inferior weapons.”
“How did you…” Tezi pointed her pistol at the mages, thinking of how she’d only managed to hit one, and that had been when his back was turned and he was distracted. “How did you charge right up to them and get through their defenses?”
“Distractions.” Sorath opened his hand, revealing little spheres. “Mages have a hard time focusing when fireplaces are blowing up behind them.”
“Some do,” the captain agreed. “We were lucky these were teenagers and not yet well trained.”
Tezi looked at the dead men—boys—and realized the captain was right. Every one of them had been her age or younger. “They start their torments young,” she murmured.
“Why not when they’re taught that terrene humans are animals and that their power means they can get away with anything?” Sorath said bitterly. “I’ll check on the men outside.”
He strode out, radiating anger.
“He’s determined to get himself killed before he finishes that book.” The captain sighed.
Tezi didn’t point out that she’d been on the verge of firing when Sorath had. It might not matter. She’d helped kill one, and the authorities might figure that out. The captain had helped too. The whole company might be punished—or worse—if the parents of the mage boys figured out who had been responsible for their deaths.
Chapter 16
16
From a distance, Amuri didn’t look that much different from Perchver, save for the whitewashed wall that protected the citizens from bandits and giant sand lizards—but not lustful teenage mages, Sorath thought bitterly.
A huge flying transport vessel rested on the ground outside the southern gate, looking more like a giant gilded box than a sailing ship or even the typical mageship. A large cargo door on the back end was down, acting like a ramp into its shadowed interior. The castle-and-lightning-bolt crest of King Zaruk gleamed on the side, its shimmering silver and blue metal catching the reds of the setting sun. Uniformed soldiers were queued up outside even before the caravan with the Red Sabers and Thorn Company arrived.
“It looks like Lugurt is going to have someone else bidding against him after all,” Ferroki said quietly from the back of her camel. “That’s Abokk’s company, I believe.”
After the mage battle, her mercenaries had reclaimed their mounts, though not without wasting an hour. The camels had been terrified, some having run over to the ocean and up the beach for more than a mile. Thorn Company, which had taken the brunt of the lightning attacks, had also needed to tend to the soldiers who had been struck. Lightning was a favorite magic of Zaruk’s legions, if the crest was any indication. Her doctor had taken a hard hit that left her hair sticking up in all directions and her uniform charred, but at least she’d survived. Sorath, who never liked to see soldiers injured, especially for something idiotic, was glad it hadn’t been worse.
Though it had only been a few hours since the attack, sooner or later, someone would miss the young mages and go looking for them. Sorath hadn’t left any of them alive—in part because he loathed savage shits like that, and in part because there had been too many injustices in the past that he’d had to turn his back on to ensure his company wouldn’t be punished for his choices. Now that he no longer led a company, and only his own life was at stake, it mattered little if he got himself into trouble. He should have died on the battlefield earlier that year. The only thing he cared about accomplishing before his death was finishing his book, but if he had to make the choice between stopping people from being tormented and writing those last six chapters, so be it.
Besides, Ferroki’s rookie had been about to fire. That would have spelled out her death, whether she’d known it or not. Maybe the deaths of all of Thorn Company. Sorath had been happy to fire first and keep them from that fate, though it concerned him that Ferroki and the rookie had come to help and had shot a mage anyway. Even though he couldn’t blame them for charging in, probably believing he needed the backup, he’d hoped to be swift enough to prevent that. He’d made sure none of the rapists had survived to point him out to the authorities that would inevitably investigate, but there had been survivors among the victims, and he had no doubt they would be questioned. He hoped none of the girls in the hotel had seen Ferroki shoot one of the mages.
“You know what that’s about?” Sorath tilted his chin toward the squads of mercenaries, all in the loose white trousers and sleeveless wrap tops of Abokk’s Desert Knights, a local outfit of a couple hundred. He’d battled them before, and his company had defeated them utterly. His gut churned at the unfairness that they were still around and his own Fang and Talon was gone.
“Apparently, King Zaruk is hiring,” Ferroki said. “I have a hunch it’s related to that artifact. It’s a foregone conclusion that Malek didn’t have Zaruk’s permission to come loot it from his kingdom.”
“That makes sense.” Sorath had considered that himself when the word had gotten out. “I’m surprised he’s taking action so quickly. Though perhaps not. The kings have been sniping at each other since they first built their castles in the sky.”
“Maybe this time, it’ll be all-out war. I’m never sure whether to wish that or not. Will it be better for simple humans living down here? Or worse?”
“Worse. After they use up mercenaries in their battles, they’ll draft able-bodied men—and women—from down here and hurl them at the ramparts of their enemies until everyone is dead. And then they’ll rebuild from the ruins, creating another world in which mages rule and we’re powerless pawns.”
Ferroki gazed over at him. “Maybe it’s not as silly as I thought that you’re writing a book. You like your words.”
“You thought it was silly?”
“Well, you don’t look the part of a scribe, running around with your broken nose, scars, and death-blow hand.”
Sorath snorted at the name for his metal appendage. After the carnage in the hotel, maybe it wasn’t a bad one. It was handy in close quarters, and he’d known the wounds would lead back to him instead of—he hoped—Ferroki. “I’ve got paper and pens in my pack. I can free them and take up the scrivener’s role at any moment.”
“I’m sure they’re nestled in there nicely between your ammunition and whatever those spheres are that you were hurling at the mages.”
“Pop-bangs. A chemist-turned-armorer in Perchver makes them. No magic involved, as I prefer.” Sorath would never again be betrayed by a weapon made by mages—one they could easily turn against its user with a wave of a hand. He’d been skeptical early in his career when magic had first replaced the flintlock firing mechanism on firearms, and “magelocks” had been born. In the years that followed, bullets had also been replaced, leaving most modern pistols and rifles hurling magical charges. These days, Sorath had to hunt for smiths making bullets for what many said with a chuckle were noisy old-fashioned weapons.
“They’re self-detonating?” Ferroki asked.
“Upon impact, yes.”
“What happens if you fall off your horse and land on them?”
“I have a bad day.”
Something blotted out the sun, throwing a shadow across the desert. Another gilded transport vessel.
It flew in from the sea, heading for a landing spot next to the first. Initially, Sorath thought it was a second craft from Zaruk’s sky city, but a gold-and-green sun-and-tree crest gleamed on its side. Queen Vorsha’s mark.
“Interesting,” he murmured.
Ferroki spotted it too. “Her kingdom is almost a thousand miles to the northwest. What are her people doing here?”
“Recruiting troops, it looks like.”
“Out from under Zaruk’s nose? I thought those two were putative allies. At the least, they trade with each other without imposing tariffs.”
“Yes, the rumors say they’re even boudoir buddies.”
Ferroki blinked at him. “Did you say boudoir buddies?”
“Yes. Like a true wordsmith, I’m experimenting with alliteration.”
“All these years, I never realized what a strange man you are.”
“I’m a fascinating man. It’s not my fault you never plumbed my depths.”
“Your depths didn’t used to talk so much.”
“Because you were usually trying to wheedle secrets about troop movements and my plans out of me before.”
“It was that obvious?”
“I’m keenly perceptive.” Sorath lifted a hand as wind from the vessel’s landing caused grit and sand to skid across the parched earth. “Queen Vorsha doesn’t permit mercenaries within her kingdom. Maybe that’s why she sent her people over here. The desert is rife with our kind, so whoever Zaruk’s people don’t pick, she can have. Are you going to join in on their war?”
“I… hadn’t planned on it. We have the little issue to resolve, though I do wonder how much they’re paying. It’s been a long drought, and if we don’t get a good payday soon…” Ferroki turned a wistful eye on the transport vessels. “And as suicidal as it can be to battle against mages, everyone loves an excuse to kill them.”
“I’ve noticed. If you need the cash, you might think about it. If your company is gathered with several others, and up fighting on mageships over sky cities, the artifact hunters will have a hard time getting to you. And even Malek wouldn’t be so brazen as to stroll into another king’s army looking for you.”
“I’m not sure that’s true, but you’re right that it might be possible we’d be lost in the crowd. I’m nothing to Malek, and one mercenary is much like another to those outside of the profession.”
Sorath didn’t point out that her all-female unit was atypical and would stick out in people’s memories whether they were in the profession or not. Ferroki already knew that. Besides, Malek hadn’t mentioned anything specific about her or Thorn Company when he’d put word out about the medallion. Maybe he hadn’t bothered to look them up.
“Are you going to get in line and go up to fight?” Ferroki asked.
Sorath shook his head. “I’ve no unit to lead into battle anymore. My plan is to spend the rest of my life in hiding while I finish my opus. If you want me to take your burden off your hands, I can go up to your headquarters and bury it for you.” Sorath hoped she wouldn’t think he wanted it for some personal gain. He felt compelled to offer to protect her, if he could, and nothing more, but after the words came out, he realized she might wonder if he would turn it over to Malek for the reward. He hoped she wouldn’t believe that he would do that, but despite crossing paths numerous times over the years, they didn’t truly know each other well.
“And make yourself a target?” was what Ferroki asked.
“I’ve been a target my whole life.”
“I can’t do that to you. You already lost your shop because people were looking for it.” Ferroki touched the buttoned pocket that presumably held the medallion. “Besides, as you pointed out, they might capture and question me even if they can’t sense it on me.”
“I understand, but if they probed your mind with magic, they would see the truth. That you passed it off to a rogue survivor who’s hard to find and harder to kill.”
“How can you be hard to find? You’re right here.”
“I can disappear in the blink of an eye.”
“In a black cloak in a pale desert?”
“My gifts are many.”
Ferroki snorted, then shifted her camel over to talk to her lieutenant. They pointed at the new transport vessel, maybe considering his words.
Sorath was about to bow and say farewell, figuring it would be best if he didn’t know their plans—or they his—in case he was caught and questioned later, but he paused when a black magecart sped out through the open city gates. Four of Zaruk’s blue-uniformed mage soldiers sat in seats up front, and a man with short white hair and fitted black clothing stood in the back. His arms were crossed over his chest, his stance wide, and his chin had an aggressive tilt as he scanned his surroundings. Stone Heart. Zaruk’s right-hand man.
“Off the road,” Ferroki called to her people.
She needn’t have said anything. The mercenaries saw the zidarr coming, his magecart speeding toward them without any indication that it would go around the caravan, and guided their camels into the dirt.
Sorath made sure his hood was up and shadowing his face. Not that the zidarr mind-readers couldn’t figure out who he was as soon as they probed his thoughts. Hopefully, with so many soldiers out here, Stone Heart wouldn’t notice him.
The zidarr’s icy gaze skimmed the mercenaries, but the magecart sped past, heading down the road in the direction the caravan had come from. Sorath had a feeling they were being sent to find the missing mages.
“Let’s go mingle with those mercenaries,” Ferroki told her lieutenant and nearby sergeants. “And get away from the caravan.”
Lugurt’s Red Sabers were already lining up in front of Zaruk’s transport vessel. A blue-uniformed soldier with a clipboard stood at the top of the ramp and was exchanging shouts with a green-uniformed man who’d just lowered the cargo-hold door on the queen’s vessel.
“Best wishes, Captain,” Sorath said as Ferroki turned to salute him before leaving.
“Stay safe, Vorzaz.”
“That seems unlikely, but I’ll endeavor to succeed.”
“You’ve a book to finish and fancy words to use.”
“True.”
As the mercenaries moved off, Sorath nudged his horse back onto the road—the black magecart had disappeared over a hill. He intended to pass through the gate, turn in his mount, buy a less obvious costume, and disappear into the city until he could find a new hideout from which to write. But his horse had only taken a few steps when two more magecarts sailed out through the gate with more uniformed soldiers seated inside.
Several squinted at him, and Sorath realized how much he stood out, alone on the road, except for the merchants, who were all that remained from the caravan. They’d already reached the gate, and the carts swerved to zip around their loaded camels. Sorath moved his mount off the road, hoping the mages would continue past. One cart did, but the other slowed to a stop right in front of him.
“You there,” an older mage said, an aura of power clinging to him. “Are you a caravan guard?”
“Yes, but the caravan has arrived, so it’s time for a drink in your fine city there.”
“Did you see any young mages on the road?”
“No.”
The mage scrutinized him. Sorath emptied his mind of thoughts, save for boring imagery of his horse trodding along an empty road.
“You seem familiar,” the mage said. “Remove your hood.”
Knowing it would be suspicious if he made excuses, Sorath didn’t hesitate to push it back. He hoped that his bushy thatch of hair would throw the man off, despite Ferroki’s suggestion that it was a poor disguise. It wasn’t easy for him to blend his scarred face into a crowd. Especially here, when he was so far away from the crowd.
As the mage kept squinting at him, trying to place his face, Sorath debated what he would do when the impending recognition came. Allow himself to be arrested? Or—more likely—shot? He wouldn’t be surprised if the kings who’d betrayed his unit had learned by now that he’d survived and put out a reward for him. And if they found out about the mages at the hotel…
“Scribe Vorzaz,” came a call from behind him. Ferroki.
Sorath winced. He kept trying to keep her out of trouble, and she kept insisting on standing with him to face it. Didn’t she realize he was trying to selflessly sacrifice himself if need be?
“Don’t forget to write about our tale for the locals,” she called. “We’re boarding now to hire on with the queen. The war will be momentous.”
“You’re a scribe?” The mage who’d been hung up on his face looked him up and down, his gaze lingering on Sorath’s weapons and hand replacement.
“A skilled one. And an accountant. I was keeping the books for their unit until they couldn’t afford to pay me anymore.” Sorath lifted a hand, keeping the movement slow since they were all watching him tensely, and pulled out the pen tucked into his tangle of hair. “Of course, I fight when needed. Bookkeepers are frequent targets, you know.”
“You’re lying.”
“Am I?” Sorath trusted the mage hadn’t gotten what he’d hoped for in his mind and wasn’t certain who he was. If he’d seen the truth, he would have reacted with more than an accusation. The men in the cart with him were fingering their weapons. And—Sorath caught motion farther along the road—damn. Stone Heart’s cart had returned to the hilltop, the zidarr staring back at them.
A mage in the front of the cart touched his temple, probably being told telepathically to hurry along. Because his men were dawdling? Or because Stone Heart had sensed Sorath was trouble?
“Mark him, Defron,” the mage said, “so we can find him in the city later if we want. The zidarr needs us for the search.”
“Very well.” The older mage lifted a hand.
Sorath gritted his teeth as a pulse of power washed over him, making his hair stand on end and filling him with the urge to scratch at skin that had grown itchy over every part of his body. He imagined that to any mage around, he now glowed like a bloom of phytoplankton at the beach.
“Go ahead.” The older mage nodded to the driver, and their cart zipped off down the road.
Sorath looked through the gate and groaned to himself. A lot of people were in the wide main street that led into the city, many peering curiously out toward the transport vessels, and some of those people included uniformed mages stationed at points along the way. A huge sign warned of the potential for enemy incursions and ordered a curfew for sunset. More guards than usual stood in the towers along the walls, each occupied by a uniformed city enforcer and also a robed mage. Amuri was expecting trouble, and if Sorath walked in, glowing with a magical mark, he would be singled out at every step.
Hypothetically, he could pass around the city instead of going through, but what then? The Rogue Mountains rose up in the distance, hostile and filled with giant sand lizards, so settlements were sparse. That made it a five-day trip to the next town where he could buy supplies. He hadn’t intended to travel all along the coast or need supplies. He’d only left Perchver to warn Ferroki.
“Stand up for mankind, bow down for the lash,” he muttered the old expression.
Maybe if he waited for the magecarts to get a head start, he could return the way he’d come. He had food and water enough for the day trip, and Perchver was large enough to disappear into again. But the thought of riding past the spot where he’d left all those mage bodies, especially when an investigation would be going on, seemed ludicrous.
He forced his contemplation to end. Stone Heart’s cart was still on the hilltop, the zidarr gazing in his direction. Mages weren’t supposed to be able to read minds from a distance, but who truly knew the powers of the zidarr?
As casually as he could manage, Sorath nudged his horse toward the queen’s transport vessel. All of the mercenaries who’d been lined up for Zaruk’s had disappeared inside, the cargo door closing behind them. Most of Ferroki’s people were boarding the other vessel, with her and her lieutenant lingering in the back. A few boys from the service that rented camels for use up and down the coast had come out and were collecting the creatures the mercenaries had ridden.
Aware of the zidarr’s gaze on his back, Sorath headed for one of the kids, swung down, and handed over the reins to his horse, along with a coin. Stone Heart could only have suspicions, or he would have already taken action. It was hard to tell if he was watching Sorath or scrutinizing all of the mercenaries. Maybe he already suspected that some trouble had befallen the wayward mages and that the mercenaries in the caravan might have been responsible.
“On second thought,” Sorath said, coming up beside Ferroki, “it’s been months since I’ve been in a good battle. Maybe it’s time I picked up a blade again.”
“You’ve been in two battles since yesterday,” she pointed out.
“Those were skirmishes. Whatever this is about—” Sorath waved at the open door, “—will involve battles.”
“I have little doubt of that. We haven’t been told any details yet, just that the queen is recruiting and the pay will be legendary.” Ferroki’s eyebrow twitched as she no doubt quoted the recruiter.
“It’ll have to be if she wants people to take on Malek and the rest of Uthari’s mage troops.”
Ferroki was waiting for a couple of her soldiers to finish up with the camels, so Sorath headed for the ramp to the cargo hold. He wanted to slip into the shadows of the vessel and out from under the scrutiny of the zidarr. If that didn’t work, and Stone Heart came after him, he would fight for his life and try to escape without getting anyone else hurt.
“No solo fighters.” The recruiter in the green uniform lifted his hand to keep Sorath from boarding. He held a clipboard in his other hand. “The queen only wants cohesive units with years of experience fighting together. She’s not paying for rogues.” He wrinkled his nose as he scrutinized Sorath and his newly acquired mage mark.
In Sorath’s experience, mage marks took weeks to wear off and no amount of scrubbing with soap and water would help. “I’m not a rogue. I’m an experienced veteran, and I can fit seamlessly into any unit.”
He hoped this mage wouldn’t do a telepathic check-in with the zidarr—or the mage Sorath had just told he was a scribe and bookkeeper. They shouldn’t since they weren’t from the same kingdom, but on the other hand, these two kingdoms looked to be allies now.
“That someone found you suspicious enough to mark proclaims your rogue status, if not outright criminality. You’ll have to—”
“Is there a problem, Officer?” Ferroki asked, walking up with the two mercenaries she’d been waiting on.
“No problem for your unit. Just Solo here.” The recruiter tilted his thumb toward the hold, indicating that her people could enter.
“Solo? He’s one of my people.”
“A man is one of your people? You’re an all-female unit. You told me so yourself not ten minutes ago.”
“That’s true. He’s more of a camp follower.”
Sorath resisted giving her the scathing look that comment deserved.
The queen’s recruiter blinked slowly. “He warms your bedroll at night?”
“With great vigor. We’re boudoir buddies.”
“I…” The recruiter reeled back.
Sorath almost did too. He didn’t know whether to laugh or scoff.
“…didn’t need the details,” the recruiter mumbled.
“You did ask,” Ferroki said politely. “He’ll fight if needed, also with great vigor, but you don’t have to pay him. I’ll keep an eye on him.”
Clearly flustered by the talk of vigor, the recruiter frowned at his clipboard but didn’t seem to find what he was looking for. “There’s not a box for camp follower.”
“Like I said, you don’t have to pay him.” Ferroki patted the recruiter on the shoulder and headed into the hold without looking back. “Come, Vorzaz. My toes need warming tonight.”
“Yes, ma’am,” Sorath said, bemused since he hadn’t called anyone ma’am since serving in his first command under the husband-and-wife team that had led the company. It had been a long time since he’d been subordinate to anyone.
All that mattered was that the recruiter let him board, scribbled something on his clipboard, and closed the door.
“Get that gear stowed, you slovenly maggots,” one of Ferroki’s sergeants yelled, pointing her people toward one side of the hold. “Strap everything down. We don’t know how rickety this big box of a boat is.” That earned a glower from the recruiter. “Dobbs, quit flirting with Fret. You know the doctor is taken. Let’s go, everyone. Hurry up and settle in. We’re going to war. Jinx, you’re on duty to scrounge up some food and fill our bellies.”
“Your sergeant is mouthy,” Sorath said blandly to Ferroki as he drew even with her.
“I like it that way. Then I don’t need to be.”
“You’ve always seemed to prefer a quieter command style.”
“It’s true that I prefer it when I can walk past my troops, looking faintly disapproving, and they jump to do better, but sometimes, you need someone with a loud voice out on a noisy battlefield.”
“She has that.”
In the metal hold of the ship, the voice echoed.
“Thanks for the help back there,” Sorath added. “Twice.”
“No problem. I owe you a few.” Ferroki held his gaze with dark eyes that never seemed frazzled. They reminded him of deep pools, barely stirring as they lay in the shady forest depths of his nearly forgotten homeland.
“You don’t.”
“Will I when I shove the medallion into your pocket and flee in the other direction?” Ferroki smiled, having no intention of doing that; he was positive.
“It depends on how long your hand lingers in my pocket. I might not mind.”
She blinked, surprised at what might have been construed as flirting. Technically, it had been flirting, something he’d never done with her before, but she had called him her boudoir buddy. A joke, certainly, but she could have told the officer that he was something else. Her company’s cook, perhaps.
But she looked flustered, a rare expression from her, and he regretted the remark.
“I better make sure everyone is settled in and try to find a bit more about our potential new mission.” Ferroki patted his arm but then hurried away. Definitely flustered.
Sorath sighed. He couldn’t seem to do the right thing today. He missed the days when his life had been simpler. Outthink enemies, lead troops into war, battle until bloody. Simple.
The faintest lurch was the only indicator that the vessel lifted off the ground. Sorath breathed out a sigh of relief. He knew better than to believe he was safe, especially since he’d just signed on to fight in a war against hugely powerful individuals with unlimited resources—and mercenaries—to throw around. But at least he and the transport vessel should be long gone by the time the zidarr figured out what had happened to the mages.
Chapter 17
17
Morning found Jadora in Uthari’s courtyard, getting her first good look at the ancient portal. Aboard the mageship, when Malek had been questioning her about the keyhole, she’d been too nervous to study it. Also, the light was better now, the sun rising over the courtyard walls and gleaming on the blue-black dragon steel.
Though she’d seen the artifact electrocute the drakur, she couldn’t resist reaching out to touch it as she walked slowly around the ring. The flawless metal was slightly warm under her fingers, but it didn’t otherwise react to her presumptuousness.
As she dug out a loupe to look for symbols beyond the writing that said, “Gateway to the stars,” two older mages in red robes strode out to it. They ignored her and stopped in front of the keyhole near the writing. One produced a clumsy replica of the medallion from Jak’s hat. Made from copper or bronze, it lacked the dragon emblem on the front and had likely been made from a mold. One mage thunked it into the keyhole.
Jadora highly doubted their efforts would work, but she watched curiously. It fit, but it wasn’t a snug fit.
“Any chance it’ll zap them with lightning?” Jak muttered, coming up to her shoulder with his sketch pad. He’d been taking measurements and drawing a blueprint of the portal.
“I don’t know. They’re not striking it with spears.”
“They’re shoving something in its orifice. If it were me, I’d be upset about that.”
One of the mages attempted to turn the replica key, then poked it with a finger, and finally held his hand above it and tried some magic on it. The artifact didn’t react.
Jadora wondered what would happen if the portal were activated as it lay on the ground. In the sketches of it in Loran’s journal, sketches he’d copied from cave paintings and carvings in ancient stone pillars, it had always been depicted as standing upright. But the undulations of the linked dragons meant the ring didn’t have a perfectly circular outside, so she couldn’t imagine it staying upright for long without tipping over. She assumed it had either been braced or that its inherent magic had kept it upright.
When nothing happened, the mage plucked out his fake key, shrugged toward the shadows at one end of the courtyard, then led his buddy back inside. Malek was standing in those shadows, leaning his shoulder against a column as he observed the goings on. Or observed Jadora and Jak as they examined the artifact.
Was he reading their minds? In case they made a discovery?
Aware of his presence, Jadora had kept herself from clambering all over the artifact with her loupe to examine every inch of its surface. She wanted to do that, but if she learned something crucial, she preferred he not be there to witness it, to read her mind and learn alongside her. As long as she was clueless, so were he and his master.
But she doubted she could maintain that resolve if the guards marched her out here every day to study it. Nor did she think Malek would allow her to simply sit and stare at the artifact without doing anything.
One of Uthari’s servants had brought the loupe and numerous other tools to their rooms the evening before. Malek had also come by, to make sure she’d received her husband’s journal and politely ask if she needed anything else for her studies. She’d merely shaken her head, willing him to go away, worried that Jak would think things he shouldn’t—about Malek’s penis size or something else equally offensive—and that Malek would react. Fortunately, he hadn’t stayed long, but before leaving, he’d scrutinized them both for long moments, as if they were some new puzzle to solve.
And here he was again this morning, scrutinizing them. Jadora had assumed he would disappear while she and Jak studied the portal, off on whatever loathsome missions he did for the king. But it was as if he were on vacation and had nothing better to do than loiter in the castle, in the same courtyard as she. At least he didn’t undress her with his eyes the way the odious general did. She’d never caught Malek looking at anything other than her face.
As she slid her hand over the smooth metal, it occurred to her that it might be the archaeological mystery that kept him here. After all, he’d read Witiker’s Field Guide to Megalithic Artifacts of Eld. Even if he’d implied it was the king who’d commanded him to study it, maybe he’d developed some personal interest. Archaeology was fascinating, especially the Dragon Era.
Well, he could stay if he wanted, but she wasn’t going to encourage him or let him hold her tools.
She paused in her walk, letting her fingers linger on the head of one of the dragons. As with the first time she’d touched the artifact, a vibrant image popped into her mind. It showed her the portal erected in a grassy valley with patches of snow on nearby mountainsides. Dragons flew through that valley, hunting what she recognized from the fossil record and drawings by paleontologists as busaros, big creatures similar to modern bison. The dragons seemed playful, nipping at each other and having races, rather than serious hunters, and even though their eyes were yellow and slitted like those of reptiles, their scaled faces had an expressiveness that she’d never seen conveyed in artists’ renditions. These were like the frolicking dragons from Iosako the Scribe’s children’s plays.
One flew toward the portal, and darkness with glittery silver lights appeared in the center, the rest of the valley no longer visible behind it. They were almost like stars in the night sky. The dragon folded its wings to its sides and dove to sail through the portal, disappearing from view. After a few seconds, the star imagery faded, leaving the center empty again.
Two more dragons landed in front of it, turning their backs to the portal and facing the rest of the valley—including Jadora’s vantage point for this dream. If it was a dream. It was so vivid that she might have believed it a memory of something that had happened. But a memory from whose point of view? One of the dragon’s? The portal itself? Could the portal have a memory? A sentience?
Two long-haired humans on horseback rode into the valley. Their clothes were made from fur and hide with bead decorations, and they rode bareback, using no reins or bit to guide their mounts. They stopped a few dozen yards from the dragons, facing them, and Jadora thought they might ask to be allowed to travel through the portal. But the dragons lifted their heads and roared, the noise reverberating from the valley walls. The horses shied and tried to bolt, but the humans patted their necks to soothe them and pressed forward. One raised a spear. Toward the dragons? Jadora couldn’t believe they would dare. The dragons roared again but did not attack. The man threw his spear, not at them but at the portal itself.
The chiseled stone tip clattered against the metal ring, broke, and bounced off. Lightning streaked out of the portal, the same as it had done with the drakur on the beach, and it struck the men in the chests, knocking them from their mounts. The horses shrieked and thundered back the way they had come. The men lay unmoving on the ground. Dead?
The vision relinquished its hold, and Jadora drew her hand back, unease sending shivers through her. That had been a warning; there was little doubt. As she’d already seen, trying to damage the portal wasn’t permitted. It could and would defend itself.
But why had those humans wanted to damage it? They must have hoped to destroy it, but why? And why with the dragons watching on?
“I don’t destroy artifacts,” she murmured, removing her hand from the surface, though it crossed her mind to wonder once again why the portal had been buried in the first place.
“You all right, Mother?” Jak was sitting cross-legged on the portal with his drawing pad out. If having his butt in contact with it was giving him any visions, he didn’t mention it.
“As much as I can be right now.” Jadora pointed to the drawing pad he’d brought out. “Are you getting all the dimensions? And anything else important? It would be good if we can continue to study it when we’re locked in our rooms.”
As they’d learned the night before, even though the suite they’d been given was luxurious, it was still a prison. The exterior door had been locked, and the guards on duty in the hall had stayed all night. Jadora had poked around in the suite’s cabinets, collecting what materials she could that might be useful in an escape attempt, but she didn’t know when they would get that opportunity. The only good thing was that nobody was loitering around reading their thoughts at night. They ought to be able to speak more freely then.
“Yes, already working on it.” Jak lifted a pen.
“Good. Thank you.” She stepped closer to him and lowered her voice. “Have you sensed anything strange when you’ve touched it?”
“The pen?” He raised his eyebrows.
“The portal.”
“Uhm, sort of. It’s a little bit like what I felt on the mageship, that I can sense its power. But it feels more alive than the ship. It’s almost… I don’t know how to explain it. Calling to me?”
“Has it done anything you’d perceive as a warning?”
“I don’t think so. It’s got this pleasant buzz.” Jak slid his hand over the surface. “It makes me want to stay close and—”
He glanced up, lifted his hand, and widened his eyes in warning.
Jadora barely kept from jumping when Malek appeared at her shoulder.
“Do you require any assistance with your research?” he asked, his hands clasped behind his back.
“No, thanks,” she said quickly.
“Unless you want to tell us what you feel when you touch the portal,” Jak said.
Jadora shot him a quelling look. If they engaged Malek, he would stick around.
“We’re comparing notes.” Jak shrugged at her.
Maybe it would be good to have another data point. And maybe Malek would touch it too forcefully, and it would zap him into the next kingdom.
Malek regarded her blandly, and she remembered she was supposed to be guarding her thoughts.
He rested his hand on the portal—lightly—and gazed contemplatively toward the courtyard wall. A few guards were stationed at the doorways leading to other courtyards and eventually out of the castle. People who lived and worked there walked or drove their carts through the area, going about their daily business and only eyeing the artifact curiously as they passed. Jadora was surprised Uthari hadn’t hidden it away in some vault where no one could see it. Surely, the other kings had spies in his city, and maybe even his castle, who would report its presence to their masters. Maybe Uthari was so arrogant in his belief of his supremacy that he didn’t care. Or maybe he assumed the word had already gotten out.
“It doesn’t fit through the doors,” Malek said.
“What?” she asked.
“The artifact. It doesn’t fit through the doors to any underground chambers—nor are there many of those in a floating city. Basements are problematic.”
Jak snorted.
“He contemplated putting it in one of the large repair hangars in our shipyards, but his castle has more security.” Malek pointed to the walls and upward at the open sky. “Not from the architecture but from dome-shaped shields that protect us. There is a magical barrier over the city as a whole and a second even stronger one over the castle. Can you sense them up there?” He had been talking to Jadora, but he looked at Jak as he asked the question.
In her mind, mallets struck alarm gongs. She shook her head minutely, hoping Jak was watching her, but he’d followed Malek’s gaze upward.
“A little bit, I think,” he said.
Jadora refrained from wincing, only because she was still in Malek’s peripheral vision. She didn’t sense anything, and she doubted any other terrene human would either.
“It is good to be aware of such barriers,” was all Malek said. “Bumping into them in the night is painful.”
Was that a warning that they couldn’t escape because of the shields? How had they walked into the castle—and the city—in the first place if such defenses existed? Were they raised and lowered every time someone came and went?
“Does that mean we’re safe from enemies here?” Jadora asked, thinking that a roundabout way to find out more about the shields. “That nobody can get in who isn’t pre-approved?”
“For the most part,” Malek said. “A few wizards are powerful enough to force them down, but that’s rare, and everyone inside the castle would sense it if the shield disappeared. Also, the artifact that generates the shield would realize its defenses had been breached and alert King Uthari.”
“Powerful like you?” Jak asked.
“I could do it, yes.”
“You said the artifact would realize it?” Jadora asked. “Like a sentient being?”
“It is not thinking, but powerful artifacts have many abilities to react and respond in ways that are designed into them by their makers. Much as this portal, I assume.” Malek had left his hand on it for the conversation, but he removed it now and told Jak, “It hums with magic, and I sense that it is aware of my presence.”
“Yeah,” Jak said. “That’s how it is for me too.”
“I have not yet received a warning.” Malek regarded Jadora. “What did it show you?”
“Dragons flying around.” She didn’t want this confab with Malek, nor did she want him comparing notes with Jak when Jak’s notes might condemn him, so she kept her answer terse and willed him to go away.
“And this constitutes a warning to you?”
“Dragons are large, powerful, and have fangs longer than your sword,” she said.
“True. I’ve seen the fossils in the museums.” Malek tilted his head to the side. “But that is not all you saw. You saw people die.”
“Didn’t anyone tell you it’s rude to sift through people’s thoughts?”
“Among mages, it is not considered rude. It is considered a failing of an individual not to develop mental defenses sufficient enough to protect one’s mind against intrusion.”
“Non-mages don’t have that ability.” She glared at him.
“Are you certain?” he asked, unfazed by her ire. “The monks of Devaloryth have ways. Few of their kind have developed magical talents, but they can control their minds.”
A twinge of curiosity distracted her from her irritation. She was aware of the stoic monks and their culture, but she hadn’t heard that they could resist the power of mages.
“They also reputedly spend eight hours a day meditating,” she said. “I don’t have time for that.”
“Perhaps a lesser amount of daily study would be required. I will bring you a book on the subject.”
“Why? You don’t enjoy reading my mind?”
One of his eyebrows twitched. “I gather you do not enjoy it.”
No kidding.
“Regarding what the portal shows you versus what it shows us,” Malek said, “perhaps it considers terrene humans to be enemies, or at least something of which to be wary.”
“Why would it be wary of us?” She pointed at Jak, including him in her us, because it terrified her that Malek might have already figured out that Jak had some latent magical ability. “You’re the one who would have the power to damage it if you wish. I’ve already seen that hurling spears at it doesn’t do anything.” Besides, she wanted to use the portal, not damage it.
“Perhaps it sees those with magical power as similar to the dragons, who reputedly had more power than even the greatest wizard has managed to develop. As I’m certain you’re aware, some legends say that the dragons wanted allies among humankind and were the ones to help some of us evolve to use magic in the first place.”
“Pindar the Great suggested he found proof that the dragons experimented on humans, giving some of them power so they could better serve dragons, not be aligned with them.”
“I am, of course, aware of that hypothesis as well. Dioklesaz the Elder suggested that magical power was granted by the gods themselves, a reward for righteousness, and had nothing to do with dragons.”
“Minosaurus the Druid wrote that the gods cursed some men by giving them power, which would more easily facilitate them destroying each other and wiping out the species, thus returning Torvil to the care of nature.”
“That is an obscure reference,” Malek said.
“Not if you’ve read the Scrolls of Trees and Vines, found in the Druid Temple of Southguard.” Jadora lifted her chin, happy to dredge up every source she could think of to suggest that mages were a plague on humanity and the world, rather than superior beings who deserved the ruling positions they had taken by force.
“I am aware of the works, but they have not been translated into Wizards’ Common or Dhoran. The druids, who have magical power of their own, have not allowed outsiders in to do the task.”
“No, you have to visit their temple and read the scrolls in their native language.”
“Which you’ve done?” Malek sounded more curious than skeptical.
“Yes. The druids study herbs like no other race, and their swamps and jungles contain many rare specimens. I spent two summers among them, learning from them.”
“Fascinating.”
Jak was looking back and forth from Jadora to Malek, looking a little stunned at the byplay.
Jadora took a step back, realizing she’d come nearly chest to chest with Malek as they’d been arguing, or debating was probably the better term. Who would the judges have awarded more points to if they’d been competing? And why were Malek’s eyes glinting as if he’d enjoyed debating with her?
Uneasy, she took another step back.
“What are your thoughts on the runes?” Malek extended his hand toward the center of the ring.
“I…” She couldn’t see any runes from where she stood.
“I was wondering that too.” Jak scrambled from his seat to stand inside the ring and patted the inner side. “Did you see them, Mother? They’re engraved in the metal but barely visible unless you’re in here next to them. They’re not like anything in Father’s journal.”
“Let me have a look.”
As she scrambled over the portal and down into the middle, her curiosity made her momentarily forget about Malek and the probing he seemed to be doing with Jak.
“I’ll copy them when you’re done taking a look.” Jak hopped back out of the center and waved her to take his spot.
“Good idea.”
She had to crouch down and run her hands over the metal to detect the runes—her fingers found them first, dots and lines engraved in the surface. There wasn’t any variation in color to make them stand out, and she had to lean close to see them. Making rubbings of them would be best. That would make them easier to study, but she grabbed the loupe so she could take a look at them in situ.
Groupings of dots connected by lines alternated with symbols or clusters of symbols. The symbols were all different, with none of them repeating. She didn’t recognize any of them. Given how familiar she’d become with ancient languages in the past five years, that was surprising. Were they languages?
She counted thirty-two symbols or symbol groups, each alternating with the clusters of lines and dots. Those were all different too, though similar in style. She couldn’t tell what they represented. Not words. They seemed more like maps. But maps of what? Some clusters had numerous dots, and others had only three or four. She thought of the molecular structures and how they were depicted in textbooks, but these didn’t seem to be a match, at least not for anything she recognized.
“I don’t know,” Jak mumbled, making Jadora look up.
He was standing outside the portal and facing Malek, who had a hand on his shoulder as if they were good buddies. Jak’s eyes were glazed as Malek studied him intently. Even though Jadora was as sense-dull as a rock, she could tell Malek was doing something to him—that energy he always exuded seemed to wrap around Jak.
Fear flashed through her, and she jumped to her feet. “What are you doing?”
Neither of them moved or acknowledged her.
She flung herself across the artifact, almost stumbling into them as she came down. She grabbed Malek’s arm and pushed until his grip loosened and dropped off Jak’s shoulder.
“That’s my son,” she snarled before she could worry about her safety and what might happen if she angered him. “Don’t you touch my son.”
Malek regarded her, his face a mask. She tried to shove him farther back, but she might as well have been pushing a rock wall. She was half-surprised she felt the heat of his chest through his shirt, and that he wasn’t chiseled from stone—or pure cold magic.
Jak blinked and took a step back, putting a hand on the artifact for support. “I’m all right,” he mumbled, not sounding all right at all. Had Malek hurt him?
“I will not do so again,” Malek said, not noticeably perturbed by her interference. But he did look down at her hand, as if to point out that her daring to touch him was foolish and not permitted.
She yanked her hand back.
Malek took a step back. “I have learned what Uthari asked.”
Her fear returned in full force. “What?”
“I must report to him,” Malek said. “Find out what those symbols in the center mean and how to operate the portal. We will have the original key soon, and Uthari wishes to open the portal as soon as possible.”
Uthari could shove his head up his ass. Or up Malek’s. Still raging inside, Jadora barely managed to keep from blurting the thoughts out loud.
But it didn’t matter. Malek’s eyes narrowed.
“Do study the mind-protection methods of the monks,” he told her. “You may live longer if you learn to wall off your thoughts. Not all mages are as indifferent to insults as I am.”
“Thanks for the tip.”
Malek inclined his head, as if her words of gratitude had been genuine, and walked out of the courtyard.
Trying not to think about what he would report to Uthari, Jadora rushed to Jak and gripped his arm. “Are you really all right? What did he do to you?”
“I’m… not quite sure. He asked if I could sense the power around us here in the sky city, and then… I don’t remember. He touched me, and this weird flush of energy flooded me. It was overwhelming.”
“Did he hurt you?” she demanded, though it wasn’t as if she could do anything if Malek had. She was powerless here in this place, and she hated it.
She’d already lost Darv. What if Uthari found out Jak had power and was past the age when he could be claimed by the mages and trained as one of them? From all the stories she’d heard, they almost always killed people they found in the wild with power. Frustration welled up in her. Why was this happening to Jak?
“No, but the energy made me want to push against it, try to get it out so it didn’t take over my body.” His young face wrinkled in confusion. “Sorry, that sounds weird, but I don’t know how to describe it.”
“Did you push against it successfully?” She hoped he’d failed whatever the test was.
“I think I was starting to—he even said something, encouraging me to do it—but then you jumped in, and the energy disappeared.”
“Don’t do anything he encourages you to do.” Jadora looked at the guards standing indifferently around the courtyard. “These aren’t our allies or our masters. We’re not here to serve them, no matter what they think.”
“He was testing me, wasn’t he?” Jak asked quietly.
“I think so.”
“What does it mean? What was it a test for?”
She closed her eyes. “Nothing good.”
“You have to tell me.”
“I will, but not when others are around.”
He frowned in protest and looked in the direction Malek had disappeared, as if he was tempted to ask him.
“We’ll talk about it tonight,” she whispered. “And I’ll tell you everything I know.”
Which wasn’t much. If Jak’s powers hadn’t come from Loran, where could they have come from? Her own family had the magical aptitude of rocks. She’d married Loran young and had only been with one other man before him—more than two years before Jak had been born. There was no chance that he wasn’t Loran’s son.
Was it possible that inheriting magic wasn’t the only way one could develop it? She’d never heard of anything to suggest that, but for terrene humans, much about the magical world remained a mystery.
How he’d developed this ability wasn’t as important as what would happen going forward. What would she do if Uthari decided that Jak should be killed before he could become a threat to their kind?
Tears pricked at her eyes. She had to figure out how to activate the portal, not because Malek wished it, but so that she and Jak could escape.
Tezi sat against the wall, the mage transport vessel barely reverberating as its magic guided it through the skies. It was her first time off the ground, unless one counted her times being thrown by Sergeant Tinder, and it was hard to shake the uneasy feeling that she would be trapped in the sky city once they arrived. For so much of her life, she’d feared she would be selected and dragged up to one of the castles to be a king’s bedroom servant. She never would have believed she would voluntarily step onto a mageship for a ride up to that world.
She drew her knees up and wrapped her arms around them. It was cold in the cavernous cargo hold, the area where the mercenaries had been told to stay. They shared the space with crates labeled explosives, magelocks, and—most alarmingly—alchemical ingredients: danger, do not touch. Straps bolted to the deck and walls kept the crates from moving around, but she didn’t feel safe.
Nearby, others in the unit played dice and cards, unfazed by this rapid change in their plans. If anything, the mercenaries were excited, chattering about the possibility of seeing action and combat bonuses.
Tezi might have felt similarly, but she worried she hadn’t had enough training to survive a serious mission. In the months since she’d joined, Thorn Company had been hired for a few skirmishes—raiding a bandit camp for stolen goods, chasing squatters out of a lighthouse, and exterminating giant tunnel rats that had moved into a mine east of Perchver—but nothing that could be called a war.
Was she ready for that? Were the others ready to rely on her? The captain might be, after their incursion into the hotel together, but few others had seen her fight yet. On the mine-extermination mission, she hadn’t been allowed to go down into danger. Sergeant Tinder had positioned her outside one of the tunnel exits, with orders to shoot any of the predatory rats that fled, but none had come in her direction. She’d ended up feeling worthless—if not deliberately placed where she couldn’t get in the way.
Captain Ferroki finished talking to the leaders of two other small units who’d been recruited—Wrath Rangers, a squad of only ten who were supposedly experts on hunting and tracking enemies, and the Moon Guard, pale-faced northerners who might have come from Tezi’s continent. Once done, she walked past her troops, checking in with the lieutenant and her senior sergeants, then surprised Tezi by coming over to sit down next to her.
“You doing all right, Rookie?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“Let’s talk about today.”
Tezi hid a grimace. Did the captain plan to berate her for disobeying the lieutenant and running to help in the hotel? None of them had been injured, and Tezi didn’t think it had gone badly, but the captain hadn’t truly needed her there, and maybe she would have preferred it if Tezi had obediently stayed on the highway with everyone else. It was hard not to feel disgruntled at the thought. Tezi doubted she would ever be a great hero featuring in a bard’s song, but she couldn’t stand back and take no action when people were being hurt. People suffering in the same way that she had once suffered.
“Yes, ma’am?” she asked quietly.
“First off, you should have stayed with the unit. Understood?”
“Yes, ma’am, but what if there had been more of them inside the hotel? What if you’d needed help?”
The captain grunted. “I should have stayed with the unit too.”
“And left the, uhm, Vorzaz to get in trouble by himself?”
She sighed. “He should have stayed out of it too. I don’t regret that we helped—at least not yet—but there will be repercussions. I’ve already talked to him, and he said that if he’s ever questioned, he’ll try not to let anyone know that you and I killed one of those mages. I don’t like the idea of him taking the fall, but… I also don’t want to see you with a warrant on your head.” The captain gazed at the side of her face.
Tezi couldn’t bring herself to meet that gaze, instead studying the gritty gray deck between her feet.
“Another one,” the captain said.
Tezi jerked her head around. “You know?”
“I’ve had my guesses. You’ve been vague, but one reads between the lines.”
“It’s in Kingdom Darekarin where I’m from. I’d hoped that if I fled to another kingdom and a whole new continent that they wouldn’t find me and they’d forget about me. And that if I learned enough, maybe I could protect myself if someday mages or bounty hunters did find me.”
“And that you’d make new allies in our unit who would protect you?”
“No,” Tezi blurted, looking in the captain’s eyes, hoping she would believe her. “I don’t want anyone to put themselves at risk for me. I just want to learn, like I said. I tried to sign up for a couple of other mercenary companies, but all they wanted was someone to cook and sleep with their men.” She scowled at the memory of the leers and comments, though none of them had been as bad as the sanctimonious insistence of the mages, the certainty that they should and would be obeyed. “I want to be able to take care of myself, and I didn’t have anywhere else to go.” She lowered her voice and her gaze. “They killed my parents just because they tried to keep the mages from taking me. They’d already taken my brother, and I was all my parents had left. They didn’t want to lose me. They were tired of losing everything to those people.” It was hard to think of the mages and zidarr as people, as human.
“I understand. With luck, they’ll be too busy with what might turn into an all-out war between multiple kingdoms, and they’ll stop looking for you.”
“I hope they forget about me forever,” Tezi whispered.
“Then you probably shouldn’t kill any more mages, not unless we’re hired as a unit to do exactly that.”
“Is it wrong to hope we are?”
“Probably not, but you need to know that any time we fight their kind, we have a lot of casualties. If I had my druthers, we’d never face mages, but the money is always much better. It’s almost impossible to keep the company supplied and fed on what terrenes can afford to pay.” The captain’s gaze shifted toward a hatch that led deeper into the ship—the mercenaries had been told not to use it. “Bloody cactus.”
A zidarr walked into the hold, and the conversations and dice rolls halted. Tezi’s first thought was that it was one of Queen Vorsha’s zidarr, but it was Zaruk’s Stone Heart again. She’d just seen him on the magecart outside of the city. How had he gotten aboard? She was sure he’d been riding off to the south as the transport vessel had loaded up and taken to the air.
“How’d he get in here?” the captain murmured, echoing Tezi’s thoughts.
Still clad in black, no hint of dust from the road on his garb, the zidarr only took a few steps before looking around at all the mercenaries. Searching for someone? Sorath? Tezi and the captain? Could he already know about the dead mages?
As he gazed in her direction, Tezi avoided eye contact and tried to shrink into the wall. The zidarr walked toward them.
The captain grumbled under her breath and pushed herself to her feet, standing in front of Tezi. Though Tezi wanted nothing more than to be ignored—or not noticed at all—she wouldn’t hide behind someone else. She scrambled up to stand beside the captain. That earned her a quick glare rather than a nod of appreciation.
The zidarr stopped a few feet in front of them, his dark eyes as cold and hard as obsidian. “You assisted another in killing boys outside of Amuri.”
It wasn’t a question. He already knew.
Tezi licked her lips, afraid to say anything, not sure what to say. Was there any point in lying? All the stories said that these people—beings—could read minds.
“Boys raping women and tormenting their kin.” The captain met the zidarr’s gaze with a calm serenity that it was hard to believe she felt. “When the cruel sun dries up the desert springs, the rain must come and revive the earth so the world is once again in balance.”
Her serenity didn’t bleed over into the zidarr. Anger flashed in his eyes.
“It is not your right to balance anything, certainly not by killing our kind.” The zidarr thumped a fist against his chest so hard it was a wonder his ribs didn’t crack.
Where was Sorath? The captain had said he would take the blame for the hotel, but he’d disappeared.
The women of Thorn Company were watching this exchange, several on their feet now, hands on weapons. They glanced from the captain to the zidarr and back, waiting for a signal to try something. But what could they do? Even fifty armed soldiers couldn’t best a zidarr if he was prepared for the attack.
The two other mercenary companies sat silent as they watched this exchange, and they didn’t reach for their weapons. They wouldn’t risk themselves to interfere. Tezi didn’t see Sorath anywhere among them or among the crates strapped to the walls.
“Lord Stone Heart,” the captain said, “it is the right of all men and women to stand up against injustice when they see it.”
“Not with murder.” Stone Heart thrust his hand out, and an invisible wave of power struck Tezi and the captain.
They flew back, slamming into the wall. Tezi hit so hard that the air in her lungs blasted out, and as she crumpled to the deck, she couldn’t gasp it back in. The captain rose quickly to her feet, hands coming up, but surprisingly, she didn’t draw a weapon.
Lieutenant Sasko and several others aimed their magelocks at the zidarr, and two people fired—or tried. The weapons clicked uselessly, their magical energy charges somehow depleted.
Stone Heart curled a lip at them and, without even making a hand gesture, used his power to flatten everyone to the deck. He stepped closer to the captain, his magic restraining her and keeping her from throwing a punch.
“Where is the man who attacked the boys first?” Stone Heart demanded, reaching for the captain’s throat, as if he would strangle her if she didn’t give the answer he wanted.
Tezi tried to stand, but the weight of a boulder pressed onto her back. She could barely turn her head to see what was going on.
The captain gagged, her face turning red as she struggled for air. He was constricting her throat with magic, not his bare fingers.
“Stop it,” someone cried.
The captain dropped to one knee, but the zidarr didn’t stop, not until something struck the deck behind him and exploded. The magic holding Tezi disappeared, but the shockwave knocked her against the wall again. The captain hit next to her, gasping for air.
Even Stone Heart staggered forward a step before whirling in time to face the cloaked man who’d come out of nowhere, landing in a crouch in front of him. Sorath. With his sword in his hand and the deadly pickaxe raised, he lunged for the zidarr.
His pick would have crashed through bone and muscle and into his foe’s heart, but Stone Heart recovered quickly enough to raise his magical defenses. The weapon struck an invisible barrier inches from his chest, the zidarr not even flinching. Sorath swung his sword, trying to catch Stone Heart from another angle. It didn’t work. The blade didn’t make a sound as it bounced off the barrier, but it was as if it had struck a metal shield.
Sneering, the zidarr blasted raw energy at Sorath. He flew upward and backward, more than ten feet off the deck. Tezi expected him to land on his butt and skid all the way across the hold, but he twisted in the air like a cat and landed on his feet.
The captain sprang up and reached out, as if to grab the zidarr from behind, but another explosion blew less than two feet from them. Tezi jerked her arms up to protect her face, but pain blasted the side of her head as shrapnel struck. She hadn’t even seen Sorath throw that—he must have flicked it toward the zidarr as he was in the air.
Either the explosive was strong enough to get through the magical barrier, or having it blow so close to him distracted Stone Heart, and for an instant, he was vulnerable. Sorath charged back in and slammed into him. Tezi rolled aside, but still received a hard kick in the ribs as the men struck the wall.
Somehow, Stone Heart had gotten his own sword out, whispering a quick command to make it glow a brilliant green, and he managed to shove Sorath back for long enough to bring it to bear. As Tezi scrambled out of the way, the men came together in an angry clash of weapons. Fire burned in both their eyes as they tried to kill each other. They struck so rapidly, steel clanging against steel, that Tezi couldn’t follow the fight. A cut appeared on the zidarr’s cheek, blood running down to his chin, and he roared in anger.
Sorath was fast, far faster than Tezi would have expected from a man of fifty, but he also bled from several cuts. He didn’t have magic to help protect him.
On the other side of the battle, the captain drew her sword, but the men were lunging and dodging and slashing so quickly that she couldn’t find an opening to help. Tezi drew her pistol, though she worried it would be as useless as everyone else’s. Stone Heart must have used his power to drain the charges in all of them.
Footsteps thundered as armed men and women in green uniforms ran into the hold—Vorsha’s troops.
Sorath dropped another explosive, disrupting whatever magic Stone Heart had been about to nail him with, but not for long. Even as smoke billowed in his face, Stone Heart thrust out his arms, and a blast of power struck everyone in the hold. Crates shattered as wood blew to pieces. The mercenaries and the soldiers who had been rushing to help tumbled backward.
From somewhere under his cloak, Sorath produced a throwing knife. He hurled it at the zidarr’s chest.
Channeling his magic, Stone Heart moved inhumanly quickly and knocked the blade aside with his sword. It clattered to the deck inches from Tezi.
Growling, Stone Heart focused all of his power on Sorath, wrapping him in magic and hurting him with crushing pressure. Sorath’s yell was as much one of rage as pain, and he never stopped glaring defiantly at his enemy, but he wasn’t able to defend himself or throw any more explosives. Some power twisted his wrist, and his sword clanked to the deck. He followed, forced to his knees. His chest heaved as he sucked in air, the rage never leaving his eyes, never giving way to defeat. He looked like a caged tiger, tormented by his master, but believing that one day, the opportunity for revenge would come.
Tezi didn’t see how that could happen. Now that Stone Heart had them, he would slay all three of them for killing those mages.
He prowled toward Sorath, his back to Tezi and the captain. Tezi wished she dared strike at him but doubted anything she could do would be effective. Besides, the green-uniformed mages were back on their feet, their weapons drawn as they eyed the mercenaries, ready if anyone moved against Stone Heart. Was he their ally? King Zaruk’s right-hand man was working with Queen Vorsha’s troops?
Sorath’s eyes were tight, his face in a rictus of pain as Stone Heart’s magic did more than hold him. Though he kept himself from crying out, his body kept jerking, as if electrical currents were coursing through him. Blood dribbled from his nostrils and one of his ears.
“Colonel Sorath,” Stone Heart stated, no question in his tone. He knew who he had. “Imagine my surprise to find you in our kingdom. I thought you were dead, killed by an alliance of kings who banded together to get rid of a threat.”
“Had to live,” Sorath panted around the pain, “to write… my memoir.”
“I’m sure the world would collectively experience an empty void if they didn’t get to read the literature of a thuggish mercenary.”
“If you… thought I was… a thug… you people… wouldn’t have… tried so hard… to get rid of me.” Sorath spat on the deck. His saliva was bloody.
“You are a thug.” Stone Heart bent close to stare him in the eyes, no fear in his own. “You like killing mages, don’t you?”
“More than you can know.” Sorath glared back, also without fear, despite whatever pain the zidarr was inflicting on him. Maybe he’d already come to terms with his death and wasn’t afraid of it.
“Good,” Stone Heart purred.
For the first time, surprise flashed in Sorath’s eyes. The captain’s face held a similar expression as she looked over to Lieutenant Sasko, who could only shrug back at her.
Stone Heart must have released Sorath, for he pitched over sideways, his shoulder bashing onto the deck. He caught himself with his pickaxe hand before his head cracked down.
“Good,” Stone Heart repeated. “You will lead the mercenary units that we are gathering. You will be flown to Uthari’s sky city, where you will be unleashed against many, many mages.” Stone Heart stepped forward to stare down at him. “If you’re half as clever as your reputation suggests, maybe you and they will survive past the first hour of fighting.”
Sorath glowered at the zidarr’s knees but didn’t say anything or try to rise. It looked like all the energy had ebbed from his muscles, stolen by magic.
“Find a uniform before you report to King Zaruk and his allies. And wash your face. You’re scruffy as hell.”
Stone Heart stepped past him and stalked through the hatchway, taking the uniformed troops with him.
Sorath rolled onto his back. For the first time, defeat lurked in his eyes.
“I was afraid it would be something like that,” the captain murmured, walking toward him. “They’re starting a war, and we’re the cannon fodder.”
Chapter 18
18
Malek thought about not reporting to Uthari that he’d tested the professor’s son, but as soon as the rebellious notion occurred to him, he quashed it and headed up to the king’s suite. It would have been better for the boy if he’d shown no aptitude for magic, but it wasn’t Malek’s job to hide that he had. Besides, Uthari was expecting him to report in. He was curious about the progress on the artifact, and he would doubtless want to know if the boy—Jak—was a threat.
As he walked through the corridors, Malek’s senses told him that he wasn’t alone. He didn’t look back but kept his defenses up, so no stray dagger would find his shoulder blades. Oh, he trusted his fellow zidarr, and knew most of them followed the Code as stringently as he did, but there was also a pecking order among them. Now and then, he sensed that Uthari’s youngest zidarr, Yidar, had ambitions and would like to take Malek’s spot as Uthari’s right-hand man. He might not attack Malek directly, but he also might not hurry to assist Malek in a battle if he needed help.
Yidar and Gorsith, both dressed in black and bristling a variety of weapons from throwing knives to daggers to magelocks, trotted silently up the corridor and caught up with Malek, then fell in to either side of him. They were dirty, their short hair tousled, and their clothing wrinkled and stained, so they must have returned recently from a mission and also had reason to report to Uthari.
“Lord Malek,” Yidar said, showing his empty hand, then touching it to his chest in the zidarr salute, a gesture Gorsith repeated. “It is good to see you well.”
“Fellow zidarr.” As the senior among them, tradition dictated that he not return the salute, but Malek nodded to each of them.
“We heard how three of Queen Vorsha’s mageships attacked you as you returned from Zaruk’s kingdom.” Gorsith had a voice like gravel crunching under the wheels of a steam tractor. Scarred flesh across his throat served as a reminder of the garrote that had almost gotten him in the battle against Colonel Sorath’s mercenary company. “How strange that her people were involved.”
“Not so strange given the new intelligence we’ve gathered.” Yidar waved to Uthari’s double doors—they were already open ahead of them in invitation. “You’ll want to hear this, Malek. War is about to find our sky city. Something I relish. A chance for honor and to prove myself.”
“You proved yourself numerous times against that tree today.” Gorsith smirked.
“I already told you. Vorsha’s spies hurled that tree at me.”
“You battled it nobly.”
“They animated its branches!”
“I saw. Never has a dendritic foe caused so much trouble for a powerful zidarr.”
“Stop laughing, Gor, or I’ll tell your girl what you like to do with trees.”
“Only the ones with strategically placed holes. And shut up about girls.” Gorsith glanced warily at Malek. “You know that’s not allowed.”
“We can have girls, just not get married.” Yidar frowned. “That’s all the Code says about women. And men for that matter.”
“Anything that divides your loyalties to the king isn’t allowed. Right, Malek?”
“That’s the rule,” Malek murmured, glad his brethren subsided as they stepped into Uthari’s suite.
Uthari sat at his desk by the windows that looked out over the castle and city wall and toward the clouds, though his gaze was on the three crystal communication nodes resting in front of him, each with a floating bust in the air above it. Malek recognized three other kings and waved for his fellow zidarr to fall silent and step off to the side with him, standing in a row in a rigid parade rest.
It was rare for kings to communicate directly and even rarer for so many of them to speak at once. This was about something important. The portal, Malek suspected.
If the doors hadn’t been open for them, he would have led the others back outside, assuming Uthari would prefer privacy for such an important conversation, but Uthari glanced at them and raised a finger for them to wait there. He rarely kept secrets from Malek, at least not that Malek knew about, but a hint of surprise touched him that he would let the younger zidarr inside for this and speak openly in front of them. It wasn’t, however, his place to question the king.
“Vorsha and Zaruk have gotten Dy and Dreter to agree to send troops, and they’ve been hiring mercenaries left and right,” one of the kings said. “I trust your fortifications are stalwart, but you may want to send ships out and take the battle to them rather than waiting for them to come to your city.”
“I’ll take your advice under consideration,” Uthari said, his tone suggesting he’d already had the information. “I appreciate you letting me know.”
“Enough that you’ll solidify that trade agreement we’ve been discussing? Your silver mines are overflowing with ore, and our alchemists use silver regularly in manufacturing headbands. The terrene population on my half of the continent is exploding, so we need more of them. You know how important it is to keep the dirt-lickers subdued.”
“I certainly do, and I am open to trade, especially if you send a fleet of your ships to assist us in keeping Zaruk’s minions from our walls.”
“You wish us to assist you when you’re so clearly in the wrong, Uthari? Everyone knows by now that you’ve stolen an artifact from Zaruk’s kingdom.”
“It was not originally built in his kingdom, nor was it ever used on land that any king claims today. Zaruk’s predecessors were the ones to steal it from its original resting place. He has no right to it.”
Malek raised his eyebrows. Was that true? He hadn’t read anything to suggest that, and he thought he’d read more than Uthari—he’d certainly been assigned to read a lot. But it was possible that Uthari had been devouring all the same information on the portal over the years and had learned even more. It had been his main obsession for some time.
“An interesting hypothesis, Uthari. Have you run it past Zaruk?”
“I’ve attempted to do so, but he’s refusing to answer my dome-jir.” Uthari waved at one of the communication nodes. “Apparently, he’s irked with me.”
“Because you took his artifact before sharing your hypothesis about its provenance?”
“That’s possible, but it would have been unwise to tip my hand. He should thank me, in truth. Had my ship not arrived in a very timely manner, the artifact might have been lost forever under the flows of that volcano. I understand it’s erupted quite spectacularly.”
“The ash has made it all the way to my kingdom,” King Wortalia said. “It’s graying out the sky and worrying the farmers who depend on the sun for their crops. I suppose I’ll have to send mages of my own to the source to do something about all that ash the volcano is still spewing. If Zaruk won’t handle it himself. He seems distracted. What does that big circle you took do, anyway?”
“We’re researching it now.”
“Your kidnapped archaeologists are researching it is what I heard,” King Jutuk said, smugness in his voice. Maybe Uthari hadn’t shared that information, and Jutuk was rubbing in that he’d learned about it.
Malek didn’t like that other kings knew about Professor Freedar and her son. When Uthari had suggested they might be targeted by enemies who wanted to keep Uthari from discovering the portal’s secrets, Malek hadn’t expected it to be so soon. How had word gotten out so fast about the portal? Malek still didn’t know. They’d swept in and retrieved it so quickly, using the smoke from the volcano to hide their mageship, that nobody from the mainland should even have seen their approach.
Those mercenaries could have blabbed, but it was also possible someone from their side had been responsible. Someone from the crew of the Star Flyer or perhaps one of Tonovan’s troops could have sold the information to another kingdom. Spies weren’t uncommon, but they made Malek curl his lip in distaste. He preferred a straightforward battle among honorable opponents instead of skulking in the shadows and plotting treachery.
“We’re researching it now,” Uthari repeated, not acknowledging anything else. “Will anyone else commit troops? I am prepared to make it worth your while.” He looked at each floating head in turn.
“What does the artifact do, and will you share what you discover?” Wortalia asked.
“We have only guesses at this point,” Uthari said, “but if we gain valuable information, I will share it with my allies.”
“Then we must consider if we wish to be allies with you in this.”
“We’ve been allies before.”
“That hasn’t always been to our benefit.”
“I’ve been fair.”
“But reclusive.”
“Are we not all reclusive?” Uthari asked. “That is the way of those who rule separate kingdoms.”
“Send details of how much silver you’re willing to part with and at what price, and we will talk further,” Wortalia said.
“I have no need of silver,” Jutuk said. “I believe my kingdom will watch and observe for now.”
The other king grunted something similar and disappeared. Soon, all three heads were gone, and the light from the nodes dimmed.
“Come forward, my zidarr.” Uthari rotated his chair to face them. If he was perturbed about the lack of commitment from his allies, he didn’t show it. “Tell me about your mission and what you learned.”
Since he was looking at Yidar and Gorsith, Malek did not respond.
“We verified that the mercenaries sent to invade the northern Sawtooth Mountains, and steal timber from our barges and iron from our mines, were paid by Vorsha. We stopped them before they got another load, and we sank their ships and questioned them.” Yidar raised his chin, oozing the pride of youth at his accomplishments.
“They didn’t know why she sent them,” Gorsith added, “so we only have guesses.”
“Either she wants us distracted while she and Zaruk prepare a raid on my city to steal my new acquisition,” Uthari said, “or she thought we were already suitably distracted and she could get away with stealing resources without our notice.”
“We noticed and stopped her, Your Majesty,” Gorsith said.
“Excellent. You will be rewarded.”
They bowed to him.
“Rest and prepare yourselves. There will be more fighting in the future. And I may have a special mission for one of you soon.”
“Yes, Your Majesty,” they said in unison.
“You are dismissed. Malek, remain.”
Malek waited until the others were gone and the doors closed. He was about to share what he’d learned about Jak, but Uthari spoke first.
“You will continue to guard the professor,” he said. “It is possible that our enemies will strike preemptively, before their forces arrive openly and en masse. They may wish to kidnap the archaeologists to gain their knowledge or kill them to ensure I do not gain their knowledge.”
Malek understood the importance of keeping their guests alive, but the idea of missing out on a more challenging mission chagrined him. Between the castle defenses and the castle’s own guard, Jadora and Jak ought to be safe. But there was much Malek could do out on the Star Flyer, firing upon enemies and keeping them from ever reaching the city. Even though he was intrigued by the mystery of the portal—and why it gave Jadora warnings and only hummed pleasantly for him and Jak—standing around all day while they read and copied symbols was not stimulating.
“I understand, Your Majesty, but perhaps others would be sufficient, and I could lead—”
“Nothing is more important than this, Malek.” Uthari looked toward his medical apparatus. “My intelligence people have given me reports similar to the zidarr. I knew I might be starting a war by retrieving the artifact, and I have put into place measures, but I admit I’d hoped you would slip in and get it without anyone knowing.”
It wasn’t an admonishment, but Malek grimaced, feeling he’d failed.
“It is not your fault,” Uthari continued. “I knew it might come to this, and I deemed the reward worth the risk. I thought we’d have more time before Zaruk retaliated, but… such is the way of the world. I will work on securing more allies while you pressure the professor to solve the mysteries of the artifact. I may send another to find that key. It doesn’t look like we’ll be able to afford to wait for treasure hunters.”
Again Uthari didn’t speak with accusation in his eyes, but Malek couldn’t help but feel disappointed in himself. He should not have missed Jadora slipping that medallion to those mercenaries.
“I will do as you wish, Your Majesty.” Malek turned toward the door.
“You had something else to report?”
Malek had almost forgotten. “I tested the boy.”
“And?”
“He does not know it, but he has power.”
Uthari’s eyelids drooped dangerously. “Enough to be a threat at any point in the future?”
Possibly was the word that popped into his mind, but Malek paused to consider his answer. If he said that, Uthari would order the boy killed. He’d likely tell Malek to do it. It wouldn’t be the first time.
Malek found himself reluctant to speak words that would result in the death of the professor’s son. She’d already lost her colleague, and if they took her son, she would never be willing to work for Uthari—or Malek. She would fight them every step of the way and might be useless, resulting in Uthari’s frustration and an order to kill her as well. Malek did not wish to see that happen. He rarely cared one way or another about the people Uthari ordered him to kill, but he’d been reading her papers and following her work for years, and had come to know her through them.
“I don’t believe so,” Malek found himself saying.
It wasn’t exactly true. When Malek had used his magic to push at the boy’s inherent magic, it had pushed back, a subconscious reflex with little thought from Jak. It had been a substantial push. If someone trained him, Jak could be turned into a powerful mage one day.
Even though it was almost unheard of to bring a terrene into the mage world at such an advanced age, it occasionally happened. Sometimes, normal humans longed for an easier and more luxurious lifestyle, with the promise of rewards never seen in the ground cities below, and they were eager to embrace the mage way. They didn’t always need to be molded from childhood to be loyal to the mage community. Malek had no idea if Jak could ever develop such a loyalty, but perhaps if he could be brought into the fold, his mother would be less inclined to fight them and try to escape.
“Hm.” Uthari scrutinized him thoughtfully.
Malek was too practiced to let his thoughts seep out for any mage to read, but the small dishonesty bothered him. He met Uthari’s gaze, hopefully without artifice, though he was tempted to correct himself.
“I will trust your assessment,” Uthari spoke before Malek could make his decision. “It would be difficult—even more difficult—to win the professor’s cooperation if we killed her son.”
“I agree.”
“Return to your bodyguard duty, and do whatever you can to hasten their studies along. As I said, I will send another to retrieve the key. If the wheel of war has already been set into motion, we cannot wait for opportunists with no loyalty to us to find it.”
“Understood. Are you sure you don’t want me to go?”
“You have your duty.” Uthari smiled faintly. “Have you won her trust yet?”
“It has only been one day.”
“That is a no then.”
Though Malek believed the teasing held no reproach, he felt the urge to imply he’d made progress. “We had a charged debate on the origins of mages.”
“You mean you argued with her? That is not how you win the trust of women, my friend.”
“We cited sources. It was a debate.”
“Sources.” The faint smile turned into a full-on smirk with eye-crinkling. “Surely, her heart is bursting with interest.”
“You said I had to win her trust, not cause any of her organs to erupt.”
“Yes, this is true. Carry on, my scholar-zidarr.” Uthari inclined his head and gestured toward the door.
Malek shook his head as he walked out. What did it say about him that he would rather go into battle than attempt to win the trust of a woman?
A twilight breeze rustled the papers stacked on the side of the portal, and Jak slapped a hand down to keep them from flying away. He’d spent an hour taking rubbings of all the symbols and collections of dots on the inside of the ring, and he didn’t want them to sail out of the courtyard and over the city wall. He wondered how often that happened, that people lost notes, love letters, and cracker wrappers to the wind. Forever.
One of the omnipresent guards looked over at him. So did his mother.
“It’s getting breezy and dark. Maybe we could take our notes and continue inside.” Jak hoped she would catch that he wanted to talk without observers present.
“Have you finished the rubbings?” Mother asked.
“I have one more to go.”
“Maybe our captors will let us go inside then.”
None of the four guards in the courtyard said anything. It had been hours since Malek left to speak with his boss, and Jak was trying not to worry about what they were talking about—and if it included him.
He couldn’t believe he’d let Malek stroll up and start diddling with his mind. It wasn’t his fault—thanks to the magic, he’d barely been aware of what was going on—but he was disappointed in himself for not grasping the significance earlier. The fact that Malek had used the word us, categorizing Jak with him, had been telling, and even before that, there had been the conversation in the cell of the mageship where Mother had admitted she didn’t sense the magic emanating from the walls and floor. He should have realized sooner that his ability to do so was atypical. But how could he have gotten stuck with this when neither of his parents could use magic? It didn’t make sense.
Since two of the guards stood close to the portal, one pacing a slow circle around it, Jak hadn’t yet had a chance to speak with his mother in private. He longed to know if she had some secret that she hadn’t told him. That thought disturbed him. He and his mother didn’t keep secrets—at least he hadn’t thought so. They were friends, to the extent that it got him mocked by the other boys at school, but since Father had died, they’d only had each other. They had to stick together and watch out for one another.
Two of the guards left, muttering something about dinner to the two remaining, and the courtyard felt less stifling. The remaining two stood at the exits instead of pacing around the portal. Maybe Jak and Mother could speak without eavesdroppers now.
She must have thought similarly, for she climbed across the portal and slid down into the center with him.
“I’ll help you with the last rubbing,” she said loudly enough for the guards to hear.
“Right. Hold my crayon.”
“Did he really give you crayons?” She sounded bemused. Maybe archaeologists didn’t think colored rubbings were professional enough.
“There’s charcoal, too, but these are more vibrant.” Jak pressed the blue one into her hand, then knelt down, grabbing tape to affix the paper to the last collection of dots he needed to capture.
“My team usually uses charcoal.”
“That’s because they’re boring old fossils.”
“You know I’m on my team, right?”
“I think of you as more of the leader or director.”
“The director of fossils.”
“Your words, not mine.” He waved for the crayon.
She crouched down beside him, careful not to block the courtyard lights—little daylight remained to see by.
“So, what’s the hidden curriculum that nobody bothered to give me at the start of class?” Jak asked quietly as he adjusted the paper. “Father was secretly a mage?”
“No.” She shook her head vigorously, her ponytail flopping against the side of the ring. “He hated mages and all things magical. I knew him well for years. He never showed any aptitude for magic.”
“Then how could I have it? My grandparents?”
“Nobody. Not that I know of.” She rested a hand on the side of the ring, acknowledging the hum of energy against her palm. “This is so powerful that even I can tell it’s magical. I’ve never encountered anything like it.”
Jak frowned, worried she was changing the subject. He wanted to get to the bottom of his mysterious abilities.
“There’s a pillar made from dragon steel on Agathar Island in the Tarnished Sea,” she said. “Thousands of years ago, sailors, pirates, and explorers all learned to avoid the island because the inhabitants didn’t like strangers, and they reputedly had great power and could call down storms to destroy their ships. For centuries, nobody visited until a natural storm stranded a whaling vessel there. The inhabitants had all disappeared, leaving behind only the dilapidated remains of their village, evidence of a war, and the undamaged pillar. The whalers left as soon as they repaired their vessel, swearing the island was cursed. The archaeologists who later studied the ruins believed the inhabitants squabbled and killed each other with their great magical power, eventually not having enough people remaining to keep their civilization going.”
“And this has some relevance to our conversation because…?” Jak turned his palm upward.
“Mages exist all over the world, so I’m not sure it ever occurred to anyone to question the power of those on Agathar Island, but now I wonder...” She removed her hand from the portal but didn’t take her gaze from it. “I wonder if the pillar could have, over time, altered their blood in such a way that the humans there developed magical power.”
“Because it was dragon steel and dragon steel is magical?”
“That’s my line of thinking, yes. Since dragons came to Torvil so long ago, there’s a lot we don’t know about them, but it’s agreed by most historians that humans didn’t leave behind anything to suggest they had magical abilities before that time. We believe that dragons either deliberately gave some of our kind power like theirs, or that it rubbed off or was somehow a byproduct of their interaction. There are hypotheses about mating between the species too, but serious scientists agree that’s implausible. However it happened, magic became a part of those affected, and they were able to pass along the ability to use it to their offspring.”
“But I’ve been able to sense magic since long before we found this artifact.” Jak waved at the portal.
She considered him. “How long?”
“It started after Father’s death. Not right away. Maybe a year later. So, I guess, about four years now.”
“You’ve worn his hat almost every day since his passing.”
“Yes, but that’s not…” His fingers twitched upward to the spot the medallion had rested until recently. The medallion that they believed was the key to the portal and was likely also made from dragon steel. He lowered his voice. “You think that could have given me power?”
“I don’t know. It’s just a thought. If dragon steel can convey power to humans, it must be slowly with exposure over time, or someone else surely would have made the connection long before this.”
“There aren’t that many dragon-steel artifacts in the world, are there?”
“No. Most that have been found are locked away in museums or are too large to move, such as the Agathar Island pillar.”
“Maybe, if this did come from the medallion, it will fade in time.”
“I wish that were true, but the number of magic-using humans running around today, thousands of years after the dragons left, suggests it may be a permanent change.”
“Great.” Jak stared at his paper, barely seeing it. The thought that Malek and Uthari could be discussing whether they would kill him or not sauntered into his mind.
“I’m sorry I didn’t notice and couldn’t warn you earlier,” Mother said quietly. “You never seemed… weird to me.”
“I didn’t seem weird?” Jak gave her an incredulous look. “You didn’t find it odd when I drew a clinometric map of the living room and furnishings? Or flooded the bathroom because I wanted to practice doing hydrographic surveys for my toy boats?”
“You did those things at age five,” she said dryly, “not fifteen.”
“Because you can’t get away with flooding the bathroom when you’re older.” He waved away the idea that magic might have been to blame for his precocious childhood. “Father said so.”
They shared a wistful smile of remembrance, and Jak’s heart ached. It seemed wrong to wish his father were alive and here in this mess with them, but he would have loved to see the portal. And he would have had some kooky ideas about how to escape. He’d regularly gotten out of traps set by ancient peoples intent on keeping their treasures untouched—he could have escaped some stinking wizard’s castle.
“I better prove to our captors that I’m indispensable. Until we can figure a way out of here.” Jak took the crayon and rubbed it sidelong over the paper. “We are still figuring a way out of here, right?”
“Yes.” Mother nodded firmly, then lifted her head, probably worried someone had overheard that.
Jak eyed the collection of dark-blue bumps against the lighter-blue background of his rubbing. There were about a dozen of them, and something tickled his mind, some familiarity that he hadn’t felt when he’d done any of the other rubbings. On each of them, the dots had been arranged differently, sometimes just a few of them scattered on the page and other times dozens. The urge to flip through atlases came to mind.
“That’s odd,” Mother murmured, not ducking back down.
“What?” With the rubbing finished, Jak stuck his crayon in his pocket and stood to add the page to the stack.
“Our guards left.” She waved to the two main exits to the courtyard, the ones where two guards had remained after the other two left.
“Maybe they went to dinner.”
“And left us here alone?”
Jak folded his stack of rubbings and stuffed them in his shirt. “I was going to suggest we request a trip to a library later, but, uh, maybe we should try to escape?”
“Even if there weren’t guards at the main exit of the castle, I doubt we could stroll out into the city. What about that dome shield Malek said surrounds this place?”
“Maybe that was a lie.”
“Do you sense it?” Mother eyed him. “You told Malek you did.”
Yes, and that had been a mistake. Jak should have realized it immediately. Maybe Malek had already been fuzzing his mind.
“I can sense something up there. I don’t know how to tell what it is or if it encompasses the entire castle. But maybe we should risk—”
Mother gripped his arm and pulled him back into a squat.
As he dropped, Jak glimpsed a dark figure leaping over a wall and landing in a deep crouch in the courtyard. Three more figures followed, hoods hiding their faces, but they all carried weapons.
Mother sank even lower, pulling his head below the portal. Did she think they could hide from whoever the intruders were? Jak doubted that would work, not that he had a better idea. Was it silly to hope they’d come for some other reason and were just passing through the courtyard on the way to their destination?
Mother dug into her pocket and pulled out a vial. Jak might have rolled his eyes—when had she found the time and resources to concoct something else?—but with new enemies in the courtyard, he only hoped that whatever it was could be used as a weapon. Neither Malek nor their mage guards had been thoughtful enough to return Jak’s weapons.
A faint rustle sounded as a shadow fell across their hiding spot. One of the figures jumped onto the portal just above them. He emanated power, the same way Malek did. Another zidarr?
Somewhere behind the zidarr, weapons clashed, the first real noise in several minutes. Maybe the guards had come back from dinner and discovered the intruders.
The zidarr, a hood shrouding his face, looked down at Jak and Mother. He wasn’t pointing a weapon at them, but that didn’t mean they were safe. He might have come to kidnap them, but he might have come to kill them and keep them from helping Uthari.
“If you’re looking for the king,” Jak said, his back pressed against the side of the portal, “I believe his suite is upstairs. You’ll like it. It’s posh. Nice chairs. Servants. I bet they’d give you a massage if your muscles are achy after scaling the walls and bursting through that magical shield thingie.”
Mother shot him a quelling look.
Power gripped Jak like a vise, pinning his arms to his sides. It hefted him into the air, his mother rising right beside him. Jak could kick his legs, but it didn’t matter; the zidarr was too far away to reach with a boot.
“I’ve got them,” he called softly over his shoulder.
Another dark figure in the courtyard crouched above the body of one of Uthari’s guards. He didn’t radiate as much power as the man lifting Jak into the air, so maybe he was a normal mage and not a zidarr. Unfortunately, Jak didn’t see how that helped him. One zidarr was formidable enough.
Another quick skirmish was happening in a doorway to the courtyard. Elsewhere in the castle—up on one of the exterior walls?—light flashed and weapons clashed. Were there two incursion parties?
Their captor turned his back to spring down from the portal. Though the power gripping Jak and Mother and keeping them dangling in the air didn’t subside, Jak could squirm a little. He wished he had something he could throw at the zidarr. The blue crayon wouldn’t defeat a mage with godlike power.
But when the zidarr turned back to guide them down, Mother threw something. Her vial. She’d taken the lid off, and she was close enough to the zidarr that he didn’t have time to erect magical defenses. It bounced off his cheek, splattering a clear liquid on his face, before clattering to the ground.
Whatever the stuff was, he gasped and reared back. The vise of power disappeared, and Jak landed on the edge of the portal.
Before he could think better of it, he kicked the zidarr in the side of the head. The man reeled back, but only for a second. He flung out a hand, and magic slammed into Jak like a battering ram. It flung him all the way across the portal, and he struck down on the other side, his breath exploding out.
With his solar plexus spasming, Jak leaped up, afraid the zidarr would spring after him and attack again. He couldn’t speak, but he waved for his mother to follow him and ran toward the nearest exit from the courtyard, one that led into a garden. If they could get away from the area and find weapons, they might not be so defenseless.
But as he ran, he realized the zidarr hadn’t flung Mother across the courtyard. He glanced back, and his heart plummeted into his boots.
The zidarr had grabbed her, pulling her to his chest, and he stood now with a dagger to her throat. His hood had fallen back, revealing a man younger than Jak had expected—they looked to be about the same age—with red splotches on his face from Mother’s attack.
Surprised the zidarr hadn’t called out for him to halt, Jak stopped and lifted his hands. But Mother’s captor wasn’t facing him or even looking in his direction.
Someone else had entered the courtyard through another gate. Malek.
His sword and main-gauche glowed white, throwing eerie highlights across his hard features. Blood spattered his cheek and forehead, though he didn’t appear injured. He must have been the one dealing with the other fight.
“Come any closer, and you’ll lose your king’s scholar,” the younger zidarr said, facing him.
Mother’s eyes were round with fear, but she didn’t shout or cry out. She gripped the zidarr’s arm, her knuckles white as she tried to pull it and the dagger away from her throat, but he didn’t budge. He might not be as experienced as Malek—Jak didn’t even know for certain that he was a zidarr—but he was fearsome and fit and powerful.
A bead of blood dribbled down Mother’s throat. The urge to sprint over and fling himself at the man coursed through Jak, and he took three steps before he caught himself. The zidarr glanced over for the briefest of seconds, enough to let Jak know he was aware of him.
“Didn’t you come to kill her anyway?” Malek prowled forward, not sounding like he cared one way or another if Mother died.
Jak cared. He backed toward the courtyard wall, hoping he could circle behind the zidarr and do… he didn’t know what. Something.
The intruder’s allies were fighting in a wide stone tunnel leading into the courtyard—even with a diversion, the stealthy incursion hadn’t made it far before Uthari’s people noticed. But the only thing that mattered to Jak was getting Mother out of her captor’s grip.
Power thundered across the courtyard like a hurricane wind. It railed against Malek’s clothing and riffled through his hair, but it didn’t stop his advance. Even though Jak wasn’t the target, some of it clipped him, knocking him into the wall hard enough that he lost his footing. He pitched down, knee cracking against the ground. Pain lanced up his leg. These people could accidentally kill him by throwing their power around.
Malek advanced several steps, rounding the portal toward his enemy.
“Stop, damn it,” the younger zidarr snarled. “You went to great lengths to get this woman. I can’t believe you’d throw her life away.”
“We went to great lengths to get the artifact,” Malek said, though he did slow his approach, pausing ten feet away. The dagger was even tighter against Mother’s throat, slicing in, drawing more blood. “You’ll find it’s impervious to any attempts you make to damage it.”
Yes, the portal could take care of itself. Mother, on the other hand…
The memory of the drakur being slain by the portal jumped into Jak’s mind. Was there any way to channel that power and use it against the intruder? He was standing right next to the portal. But unless his dagger slipped and he nicked it, Jak doubted the ancient artifact would lash out. Unless it could be convinced the zidarr was a threat to it. Was it possible to communicate with the portal? Mother had said it had been giving her visions.
Jak found himself crawling toward the artifact, though he had no idea how to do what he was thinking, or if it was even possible. But all day, they had been discussing how it seemed to have some sentience, that it was more than a lump of metal. Far more.
“The portal is useless to you unless you figure out how to use it.” The young zidarr sounded calm and sure of himself, though he had to be nervous about Malek’s approach, about being in an enemy stronghold.
Jak eased closer to the portal. It blocked his view of Mother, the zidarr, Malek, and the fighting in the tunnel, but that meant none of those people could see him. He touched the cool blue-black metal, feeling the familiar buzz of energy against his skin.
“Perhaps we’ve already figured out how to use it,” Malek said.
“In a day? The mystery of the millennium? Oh, I’m sure.” The zidarr’s tone grew sharp as he barked, “Stay back!” He growled. “Take another step, and she’s dead. You’ll only have the boy. Does he even know anything?”
I know a lot, Jak thought, and focused on the portal. He pictured the zidarr in his mind, that dagger and his magic, how he was close enough to stab the weapon into the metal, shearing off a piece of it and damaging it.
A tingle of energy went up his arm, and a new image formed in his mind. It was of Malek facing the zidarr, and Mother being held prisoner—exactly what was happening. Had the vision come from the portal? Was it responding and showing him what was truly going on and conveying that it wasn’t worried about being damaged?
Jak replaced the image with another of his own, of the portal shooting out lightning and striking the zidarr while leaving Mother alone. Another tingle ran up Jak’s arm, but no lightning shot out. Damn it. The artifact seemed to be listening to him, but it either couldn’t or wouldn’t obey his suggestion.
“He knows enough to take over, should you kill the woman,” Malek said.
Jak doubted there was any chance Malek was monitoring his thoughts while he was busy facing an enemy, but just in case, he thought, Get him to threaten the portal, booming the words loudly in his mind, willing Malek to hear them.
Faint rustles and murmurs came from the wall above the courtyard. Numerous guards were now up there, aiming magelocks down at the zidarr. Jak winced, terrified for his mother. She could die to friendly fire as easily as to the zidarr’s dagger. Not that anyone here was truly a friend.
“Not another step, Malek,” the zidarr growled.
Jak lifted his head to peer over the portal. Malek had closed the distance to six feet.
“If you don’t value the woman, then what about this?” The zidarr lunged to the side, dragging Mother with him, and slapped something down on top of the portal. “With a thought, I’ll blow this thing to the stars.”
An explosive? Jak touched the portal again.
Now, will you attack him? he silently urged it.
He needn’t have bothered. Before he’d finished the question, yellow lightning shot out, three branches slamming into the zidarr’s side, leg, and head.
The deadly energy must have brushed Mother, for she cried out.
Jak ran around the portal to get her, but Malek reacted first. He sprang forward, tore the dagger out of the zidarr’s hand, and pulled her away.
The zidarr screamed as lightning wrapped around him, his body convulsing and spasming. With Mother out of the way, the guards on the wall opened fire. Blue charges from magelocks slammed into the zidarr, pummeling him as mercilessly as the lightning. Malek narrowed his eyes, focusing on his enemy, and the zidarr’s head exploded.
Jak halted, gaping. Had Malek done that—did he have the power to blow up a man’s skull?—or had the portal?
The zidarr’s headless body slumped to the ground, the lightning disappearing.
Malek didn’t release Mother, but he pointed his sword toward the tunnel in case another threat approached. The battles in there had subsided. The king’s guards and another man in black—not one of the intruders—walked into the courtyard, dragging two prisoners. The body of the final intruder also lay back in the tunnel.
“You’re welcome, Malek,” the black-clothed man said.
“Thank you, Yidar.”
“Where’s Gorsith? Don’t tell me he was eating dinner and missed all the fun.”
“I ordered him to guard Uthari,” Malek said. “The first incursion team went for his suite.”
Jak crept closer, wanting to check on Mother, though Malek hadn’t released her yet. Or maybe she hadn’t released him. Relief stamped her face, but fear lingered in her eyes as she stared at the portal. If it had brushed her with that lightning, she had a reason to be wary of it.
“I wondered what took you so long to get here,” the other zidarr—Yidar—said.
“I wonder who bribed some of our people to conveniently disappear.” Malek looked at the uniformed men, though they weren’t the same ones who’d been guarding the courtyard earlier.
Yidar shrugged. “It might have been a magical compulsion. Such as you were trying to use on Coxen there.” He sniffed. “Most zidarr aren’t susceptible to such tricks. I wonder why Vorsha sent such a young pup.” Yidar himself didn’t look that much older.
Malek shifted his attention to Mother, seemed to realize he didn’t need to hold her close anymore, and released his grip on her. “Are you all right?” He eyed the blood on her neck and lifted a hand as if he might touch it or try to staunch the flow.
She stepped away, her hand going to her neck. “I think so. It’s just a cut. The buzz I got from the portal was more rattling.” She shook out her hand as if she’d been stung by a jellyfish.
“I apologize for not being as timely with my arrival as I should have been.” Malek’s tone shifted from formal to curious. “What did you do to his face?”
“You saw that?” she asked.
“I saw the result. The last time I saw Coxen, half of his face wasn’t burned off. Or peeled off?”
“Burn is the more accurate term. I made an acid in case I needed to defend myself.”
“There’s not a laboratory in your suite.”
“There’s a kitchen.”
Jak, who’d seen Mother make things from all manner of unlikely liquids and powders, wasn’t surprised. Now that she was free, he quickened his pace toward her, but he paused when he came even with the explosive the zidarr had planted. The portal might appreciate having that removed. But when Jak reached for it, he paused in puzzlement.
It was… a mitten. At least it looked like a mitten. Was this some strange mage tool designed to appear innocuous but actually be a weapon?
“He won’t need that now.” Malek walked over, picked it up, and tossed it onto the smoking corpse.
“I don’t understand,” Jak said.
“No? It was your idea.”
“Convincing him to threaten the portal? You were reading my thoughts when I, er, thought that?”
“I wasn’t, but you projected.” Malek’s eyebrow twitched, reminding Jak of the other threat lurking. He lowered his voice to add, “I suggest you not do that around other mages if you wish to avoid notice.”
“You manipulated him?” Mother looked back and forth from Jak to Malek. “Into what? Believing his own mitten was an explosive?”
“And that the only way he would get out of the situation was to use it to threaten to blow up the portal,” Malek said. “I admit I wasn’t sure if the portal would believe it was being threatened.”
“I hope it’s not mad that we tricked it.” Jak regarded the artifact uneasily. In case it made a difference, he sent soothing and apologetic thoughts toward it.
“Let’s hope ancient artifacts don’t experience anger,” Mother said, though she was also eyeing it again. “I am a little chilled to learn that it may be able to read minds. It had to have been reacting based on the zidarr’s thoughts, his belief that he was threatening it, rather than having a mitten plopped down on it.”
“Powerful mages can read minds,” Malek said, “so I’m certain the dragons were able to.”
“And they were able to pass that ability into the tools they made?” Mother sounded skeptical.
After watching the portal fry the zidarr, Jak had no trouble believing it could read minds. It had heard his attempts to communicate with it. He was certain of that.
A guard captain came up and saluted Malek. “My lord, we’ll have the bodies removed and take these prisoners to the dungeon for interrogation. Is there anything else you wish of us?”
“Sweep the castle for any more intruders, and find out how these got in.”
“Yes, my lord.”
Malek looked at Jak and Mother. “I’ll have someone escort you back to your rooms, and I’ll check on you later.”
“That’s not necessary,” Mother murmured.
“The escorting or the checking?” Malek asked.
“I wouldn’t object to an escort right now.” She grimaced as two guards dragged the dead zidarr’s body away.
“I see. It’s the checking,” Malek said dryly, unaffected by the bodies around the area. “I’m afraid the king wants an update at the end of each day, and I’m the one he’s put in charge of that, so you’ll have to report to me and endure my odious checking in on the progress.”
Mother touched her bloody neck and didn’t respond to his words. She nodded to Jak. “You have your rubbings? We’ll look at them in better light inside.”
“Is there any chance we could use a library tomorrow?” Jak asked Malek. “Is there one in the city?”
“There are many,” Malek said, “including one in this castle.”
Jak wouldn’t have minded getting out of the castle. “Does it have lots of atlases?”
“And linguistics reference books?” Mother lowered her hand. “I want to see if I can find a match for the symbols.”
“Yes. King Uthari’s collection is extensive. If it will help your research, I will request his permission for you to visit his library.” Malek looked toward the courtyard entrance.
General Tonovan was walking in with several of his uniformed men. Mother groaned, but he barely glanced at her, instead stopping in front of Malek.
“We’ve got new trouble. You better come with me as I report to Uthari.”
“It’s begun?” Malek asked.
“If by begun you mean did two of Queen Vorsha’s mageships strike at some of our barges gathering food from farms, then yes. They didn’t even try to hide their identities. This is an open declaration of war. I sure hope this was worth it.” Tonovan kicked the portal, scowled at Mother and Jak, and strode toward a door leading into the castle.
Jak watched, wishing the portal would electrocute him in the ass, but the foot must not have been threatening enough. Too bad.
Chapter 19
19
It wasn’t Lieutenant Sasko’s first time in Zarlesh, the cloud city of three hundred thousand where the grumpy middle-aged King Zaruk ruled, but she didn’t have fond memories of the last time, so she pretended this was a new experience. She also pretended, as usual, that she wasn’t awed by the towering structures or alien architecture defying the laws of gravity. They were mage buildings made by mages showing off their magic, nothing more. The balls floating at the apexes of the great stone arches lining the wide main street weren’t impressive, even when they spun and occasionally bounced to a different arch, bumping an existing ball out of the way and causing it to bounce to another and so on down the line. Someone who liked puzzle games must have built that.
Captain Ferroki walked at her side, with Sergeant Tinder, Dr. Fret, Rookie Tezi and the rest of their mercenaries marching in neat squads of fifteen behind them. The other mercenaries who’d departed from the transport vessel came behind Thorn Company, also marching in tidy formations.
A few pedestrians on foot, bicycle, or magecart glanced at them as they passed, but the citizens didn’t seem alarmed by armed troops striding down their main street. Nor did any of them take interest in the newly appointed mercenary leader, Colonel Sorath, now walking with his hood back at the front of the formation. The white-haired zidarr, Stone Heart, strode in front of him, leading the procession, with a few green-uniformed officers from the ship marching in his wake. Thorn Company had been told they were being taken to the local garrison, where they would wait while more mercenaries arrived.
A chilly breeze made Sasko wish she’d opted for the sleeved version of her uniform. They were now thousands of feet above sea level, the temperature notably cooler than it had been in the desert. Sorath must have felt it, too, for he pulled the sides of his cloak around his shoulders to drape down the front of his body.
“Are you going to have a problem with this, Captain?” Sasko tilted her chin toward Sorath’s back.
“With what?”
“Taking orders from a former nemesis.”
“We were rarely nemeses, and I respected him even when we were pitted against each other.” Ferroki looked over. “Are you going to have a problem with it?”
“You know how I feel about taking orders from men.”
“Unless it’s under the covers?”
“Especially if it’s under the covers. Someone tries to boss me around, and I’ll put a death grip on his dick.”
“A move that must make you popular on shore leave.”
“That and my great tits.”
“You’re a soldier through and through, Sasko.” Ferroki nodded toward Sorath. “We always have to work for men, either when our units are joined with others for larger missions or when we take jobs they assign. It’s the way of the world.”
“Yeah, but they order you around, and then you order me around. That works for me.” Sasko didn’t go into her past or the reasons for her feelings—the captain knew it all.
“Nothing will change.”
“What if he thinks that because we’ve spent a couple of days together, he can boss us around? You followed him into a brothel to deal out carnage.”
“It was a hotel, not a brothel. And don’t remind me.” Ferroki lowered her voice. “Don’t remind anyone.” She looked at the back of the zidarr’s head.
“Sorry.” Sasko had been useless in that situation, busy chasing her camel and dodging lightning bolts. Knowing Ferroki had gone off and risked herself without Sasko annoyed her to no end. That mages could wave a hand and flatten an entire company of soldiers to the ground was infuriating. “Do you think we’ll be punished?”
Sasko didn’t nod to the zidarr’s back; she trusted Ferroki knew who she meant.
“He’s either forgotten that we played a role in that—” Ferroki tilted a thumb back toward Tezi’s squad, “—or he’s lumping us in with Sorath as people who might be useful in his impending battles.”
“The rookie is going to be useful?”
“She shot one of them.” Ferroki shrugged. “It’s also possible he believes we’ll die and that the mages will be avenged.”
“That seems likely. I could see the zidarr knowing about Sorath and believing he could be useful, but our reputations aren’t nearly so vaunted.”
“My reputation isn’t bad,” Ferroki said dryly.
“Yeah, but it’s not vaunted.”
“As my second-in-command, it’s not your job to batter my ego into the ground.”
“Are you sure? Vanity can get a commander and her troops killed. That’s in Ostark’s Way of the Soldier, isn’t it?”
“He mentions overconfidence, not vanity.”
“Practically the same thing. My point is that I don’t know if having Sorath in charge is a good idea. Yes, he won a lot of battles, and he’s smart under that punched-in-the-nose-fifty-times face, but he got his entire unit killed. There were what, five survivors? Ten? Out of hundreds.”
“Because three kings colluded to pretend to hire his company, then turned their combined forces on them to take them out. They weren’t even kings known to be aligned with each other—the opposite. They’d been enemies sniping at each other for decades. I’m sure that’s the only reason he was led into that trap.”
“That’s one version of the story. There are a lot. There’s one that says they paid him a fortune to lead his people in there for massacre.”
“That’s ridiculous. Does he look like a man with a fortune?” Ferroki waved at Sorath’s forgettable clothing, as travel-stained as their own. “Besides, he’s the only one the kings would have cared about. His men were well-trained, but they weren’t the thinkers, the leaders. They weren’t the ones the wizards feared might one day be turned against them…”
Sasko dropped the subject. She didn’t truly believe the other versions of the story she’d heard, but she hoped they wouldn’t end up under his command. Betrayal or not, Sorath had lost his unit. The man was cursed by the gods.
Their leaders turned down a side road, taking them toward a walled fortress within the greater walled city. Zaruk’s castle-and-lightning-bolt crest hung on giant blue banners to either side of a fortified gate. Magical and mundane weapons were mounted on the crenellated walls.
“This isn’t his castle, is it?” Sasko asked.
“No, his garrison,” Ferroki said. “I’ve been in it before. The castle is over there. You can see the golden walls glinting in the light.”
“Of course you can.”
Guards waved their unit through the open gate, a raised portcullis leering sharp wooden teeth down toward them. On a parade field inside, the ground made from some strange textured gray stuff that served as a reminder that this city wasn’t built on land, numerous mercenary companies already waited. There were far more soldiers than Sasko had expected, troops lined up in formations facing the center of the gray field, with little separation between the units. In some spots, only the colors of the uniforms served to delineate one company from the next. Some were small, like the Wrath Rangers they’d ridden up with, and others had fielded hundreds of soldiers.
“Form them up, Sasko,” Ferroki said, then pressed something into her hand. The damn medallion wrapped in a kerchief.
Feeling the thing was even more cursed than Sorath, Sasko almost thrust it back at her, but Ferroki was already jogging after Sorath. They were being waved toward a meeting of commanding officers in the center. Sasko stuffed the medallion in her pocket, hoping a few dozen yards was enough to keep the mages out there from sensing it. That and the fact that everything in this place had to be made from magic. Hopefully, with all that around, nobody would notice a little old ancient medallion.
Two zidarr in dark clothes without ornament, save for their weapons, waited, and the white-haired Stone Heart joined them. Ten unit commanders were in the group—twelve if Sasko counted Sorath and Ferroki—as well as several officers in the uniforms of Zaruk, Vorsha, and King Dy. A couple of them glanced toward a central tower on the garrison’s main structure, as if receiving telepathic instruction.
People stood up in that tower, watching the proceedings, but Sasko couldn’t make out faces. She wondered if the three kingdom leaders were here or if they’d sent minions. It wouldn’t be that surprising for Zaruk to be in his own city, but it was rare for the kings to leave their sky castles. Vorsha and Dy might be attending through communications nodes.
There weren’t many open areas left on the parade field, so it took some finesse for Sasko to march Thorn Company into formation without breaking rank. But she maneuvered them into a corner and took her place up front, waving Corporal Jinx out with the guidon.
Then came the waiting, standing in a silent parade rest while the higher-ups decided their fate. The rest of the troops had to be patient until their commanders returned and relayed what information they wished. At least, that was how it usually went. But Sasko was close enough to the group meeting that she could overhear some of the louder voices.
“I know who he is. My people aren’t following him… got his whole unit killed.”
Ah, some of the other commanders had the same objections that Sasko had. Sorath stood next to Ferroki, his jaw clenched as he stared up at the tower. He’d been wearing a scowl since his confrontation in the transport vessel, since learning his fate. Sasko wondered if he would have preferred death to working for the kings and with the zidarr again.
Stone Heart kept pointing to Sorath while he spoke to the twelve mercenary commanders in the gathering.
“…happy to listen to his advice but… Colonel Ramhorn should be in charge.” One of the commanders pointed out another.
“Colonel Sorath is known for his effectiveness against mages.” That was one of the zidarr, his tone as dry as sandpaper. “You’ll be battling almost nothing but mages.”
“Fantastic,” someone muttered.
“Mind your tongue in our presence.”
“You said you wanted us to be blunt.”
“To be blunt, my lord.” The zidarr lifted a hand, and the offending commander gasped and dropped to one knee, gripping his forehead as if someone had thrust a dagger into it.
Nobody else reacted, though Sorath didn’t conceal the cool stare he slid toward the zidarr.
“And I wish bluntness regarding our military tactics and the planned raid, not your feelings on mages.” The zidarr released the commander, who gasped again at the cessation of the pain. “Is that understood, Captain?”
The commander pressed his knuckles against the gritty ground, and a long moment passed before he could push himself back to his feet.
“Yes, my lord.” This time, there was no disrespect in his tone. His face was ashen.
Sasko was glad the second-in-commands hadn’t been called up for the meeting. Working for mages was hard to avoid in this world, but she preferred to interact directly with them as infrequently as possible.
“Is there a chance of a surprise attack?” Sorath asked.
“Several of our allied mageships attacked theirs as they were stealing an item from King Zaruk’s land, and there was a battle,” Stone Heart said. “Thanks to their trickery, our ships were destroyed. Uthari will be able to guess that we’ll retaliate.”
“You’re going to retaliate because they defended themselves adequately?” Sorath asked.
Stone Heart squinted at him. “Because they stole something priceless from our land. Do not assume that because you could possibly be useful that your crimes will be forgotten and that we won’t kill you.”
“The urge to serve you adequately is building up in me like flatulence.”
Ferroki elbowed Sorath to shut up, but it was too late. Stone Heart or one of other the zidarr used magic to force him to his knees, and his face twisted with pain.
Ferroki’s fingers twitched toward him, as if she wanted to help. All three zidarr glared at her, and she clasped her hands behind her back.
“If you punish everyone who speaks up,” Ferroki said—damn it, why was she speaking up?— “we will not have time to plan a campaign and catch them off guard.”
Her voice held little accusation or censure, just her usual calm, as if she were quoting from one of her fables. Even so, Sasko cringed, anticipating she would be the next one struck down. But maybe the zidarr felt less threatened by a woman. They released Sorath.
He stood up, as wan as the other commander, but he drew a steadying breath and continued where they’d left off. “Is the primary goal to utterly defeat Uthari and take over his kingdom? Or to get this item that his people have taken?”
Sasko didn’t know why they were being vague about the artifact. By now, gossip about it must have spread throughout the kingdom—maybe all of the kingdoms. She wagered everybody here knew what they were talking about.
“We would love to take over his kingdom,” one of the zidarr said with a snort, “but reacquiring the item is the primary goal. Damage done to his city while it’s being reacquired is encouraged. His theft was an act of war. He brought this on himself.”
“Where is this item located?” Ferroki asked. “Do you know?”
“In a courtyard in his castle,” Stone Heart answered.
“Ah,” Sorath said, “a simple place to infiltrate.”
Stone Heart squinted but didn’t otherwise react to the sarcasm. “Someone sent in a team prematurely to attempt to retrieve it, hoping to make a full-on assault force unnecessary, but they were not successful.” Stone Heart gave a significant look to the men in Vorsha’s green and also one of the zidarr.
“Since you’ve already given up the element of surprise,” Sorath said, “we should attempt to make a diversion work. They’ll know exactly what we’re doing, since what you’re trying to get is obvious to all, but if we threaten enough of his prime resources—such as the food that’s brought up to feed his city—he’ll be forced to send out troops, lessening the number left in his home skies to defend his city.”
“We can handle that.” One of the commanders lifted a hand.
“Sure, take the easy job, Kal,” another said. “Let the rest of us storm his fortress and face Malek and his other zidarr.”
“The zidarr will handle the zidarr,” Stone Heart said coolly. “I am not afraid to fight Malek.”
“I would be,” another of the zidarr muttered.
Stone Heart gave him a scathing look, but all he got was an unapologetic shrug in return.
“Half of the units will attack at strategic points in Uthari’s kingdom to draw his mageships away,” Stone Heart said. “Once his forces are split, the rest of you will fly at his city from varying directions under the dark of night. Colonel Sorath will lead those mageships, and you’ll defer to him.”
“With all due respect,” a new voice said, “no, my lord. Nobody’s trusting his judgment against mages.”
“We’ll only follow Ramhorn,” the commander who’d objected to Sorath earlier said. “We want to survive.”
Sorath returned to gazing at the tower and said nothing to argue for himself as leader. He hadn’t wanted to be here, but if nobody was willing to follow him, would Stone Heart kill him? As punishment for his crime? Ferroki would object to that, which could mean trouble for all of Thorn Company. Sasko shook her head bleakly when Ferroki looked over at her, a troubled expression on her face.
“With so many of you engaged in this,” Stone Heart said, “the survival rate should be high. Sorath has fought and won against mages before, as you all know. His first loss came when he was set up, by some of the people he now has a chance to fight against.” Stone Heart looked at Sorath. “You should be delighted.”
“Queen Vorsha was also among those who arranged that,” Sorath said without hint of delight. “Last year, she was an ally to Uthari. Are you sure she can be trusted not to tattle your plans to him?”
The zidarr who must have been one of Vorsha’s loyalists surged up to Sorath. “The queen is not allied with that thief. The truce they formed against you was temporary, to rid the world of terrene soldiers who try to build their careers by targeting our kind.” He curled a lip. “Too bad they failed. I hope you sleep poorly, haunted by the deaths of all those who died while you walked off the battlefield alive.”
“Actually—” Sorath lifted his pickaxe to scratch the side of his nose, “—I crawled off the battlefield, almost bleeding out after using my belt to make a clumsy tourniquet.”
Ferroki, who might not have heard that part of the story before, turned sympathetic eyes on him. A few others eyed his pickaxe as he lowered it to his side, grim-faced and maybe also sympathetic. But none of them changed their minds and said they would follow him into battle.
Stone Heart glared around the group, probably reading their minds and debating if it was worth threatening them into compliance. All of the commanders except Ferroki studied the ground to avoid his gaze.
Normally, Sasko would be proud of her captain for holding his gaze, but since she didn’t want to follow Sorath, either, she would prefer Ferroki throw her vote behind the other colonel. Sasko had never worked with Ramhorn on a campaign before, but she’d heard he was solid. Admittedly, they would need brilliant over solid to have a chance on this mission. Launching an attack at a known target when the enemy was most expecting it was ludicrous.
“Fine,” Stone Heart finally said, after what looked like a telepathic consultation with someone in the tower, “Colonel Ramhorn will lead the main thrust to attack Utharika from multiple angles and keep them so busy they’ll be spread too thin to adequately defend the item.”
Several commanders nodded. Others looked bleak, like they were rethinking whether they wanted to sign on for this. Sasko had a feeling that nobody had been told what this mission would involve before being allowed onto the transport vessels. Doubtless they’d only been told that the pay would be good.
“You’re providing the majority of the troops,” Stone Heart continued, “but we’ll provide the transportation, well-armored and well-armed mageships fast enough to allow you to escape if you need it. And as I said, we’ll send zidarr and highly trained mages along to assist you. Also magical explosives that you can lob into their city.” Stone Heart smiled at this imagined carnage. “This isn’t a suicide mission, gentlemen. And upon its completion, you will be rewarded.”
Stone Heart took a few more minutes to detail the pay the units would receive, along with bonus rewards that would go to anyone who brought him the head of Uthari or any of his zidarr. No matter what he’d said, this sounded like an all-out war, not just a grab for an artifact.
Sasko thought the meeting was wrapping up, but Stone Heart turned to Sorath and pointed a finger at his chest. “You, my mage-hating colonel, will still play a vital role.”
“I’m so relieved,” Sorath said in a deadpan voice.
“I’d threaten to kill you, but there’s little need. You’re the type to lead the charge. You’ll end up dead on Malek’s sword point.”
Ferroki frowned. “What’s his role?”
“Actually, it’s your role.” Stone Heart wiggled his finger at Sorath and Ferroki, then pointed over to Thorn Company.
Sasko sighed. Why couldn’t Ferroki have volunteered them to attack a silo somewhere?
“While the diversion is happening—” Stone Heart waved at the rest of the units, “—you’ll slip in on a fast small mageship, abseil into their city without being noticed, and find a way into the castle to get the artifact. You’ll secure it while also finding and destroying the mage tool that creates a defensive shield over Uthari’s stronghold. Once you’re ready, you’ll signal the ship to come pick you up. The mage crew should be able to levitate the artifact out of the castle once the barrier is down, but if necessary, you’ll throw hooks around it so it can be hefted out. If you return it here, where it belongs, King Zaruk has agreed to pardon you for your crimes, providing you leave his kingdom and never return again.”
Judging by the distasteful twist to Sorath’s lips, he didn’t find the deal that appealing. Or maybe it was the task he’d been assigned that he objected to. Sasko couldn’t remember hearing of any mercenary companies ever breaching one of the kings’ castles. Their kind were usually used for ground attacks in wars of attrition. In all her years as a soldier, Sasko had never been flown into battle on a king’s mageship.
“I trust you won’t have trouble following Sorath’s commands, Captain.” The frown that Stone Heart leveled at Ferroki said she had better not.
“I acknowledge that Colonel Sorath is a capable leader,” Ferroki said, “but I have not yet signed a contract or verbally agreed that we will partake in this mission.”
“Nobody has,” Stone Heart said, waving at the other commanders, “but if they know what’s good for them, they will. As will you.”
Ferroki opened her mouth, but he cut her off.
“There are not unlimited people in the world with the wealth and interest necessary to hire mercenaries.” Stone Heart leaned in and towered several inches above her. “It would be a simple matter for the word to get out that you and your girl unit were too cowardly to take what is a more than fair offer from a king. World leaders speak with each other. If you do not want your Twig Company to be blacklisted, you will take this assignment.”
“Thorn Company,” Ferroki said without batting an eye. “Why does it matter to you if we take the job or not? You have others here who will do it.”
“Because you will follow Sorath.”
“And you think he’s the only one who can get your object?”
Stone Heart eyed Sorath who was eyeing him back. They radiated distaste at each other, but Stone Heart’s tone was almost respectful when he replied. “I think he’s got the best chance. And your female soldiers won’t be seen as threats, so you’re more likely to be able to slip in with him. Do it and succeed, and I’ll see to it you receive triple pay.”
Ferroki took a deep breath before answering. Money wasn’t everything to her, but Sasko knew she’d grown weary of the struggle to earn enough to keep everyone paid. Having full coffers for a while would appeal to her—to any mercenary captain.
“Very well,” Ferroki said. “We’ll sign a contract.”
Sorath turned a bleak expression on her, but he didn’t object. Maybe he no longer cared if he lived or died. It was hard to imagine that he believed they could succeed. He didn’t look like a man who thought he would earn a pardon and be allowed to escape Zaruk’s kingdom without a legion of mages hunting him down.
Chapter 20
20
Their lavatory had a first-aid kit with bandages, and as soon as Jadora and Jak returned to the suite, she cleaned the cut on her neck. It stung, the wound deeper than she’d realized. Had she been back at home, she would have gone to Dr. Petrosni for stitches. Her heart rate, which had finally slowed to normal after they’d returned to their suite, took another zag upward as she realized how close that bastard had been to slicing her jugular.
With a tremor to her hands, she wrapped a bandage around her neck, then took a deep breath and tried to calm her mind enough to contemplate the future, not the past. If the kings were starting a war with each other, and preemptively sending people in to kill her and Jak, they needed to escape more than ever. Tonight was proof that they couldn’t rely on the supposed castle defenses to keep them safe. Even Malek couldn’t watch over them every second of the day, and if enemy zidarr could manipulate the minds of the guards watching over them, who knew when they would disappear again? Or turn on her and Jak with weapons more deadly than a mitten?
A part of her wanted to laugh at that trick, to appreciate what Malek had done, but she worried that with new threats, she would forget to think of him as an enemy. She reminded herself that she was only here because of him, because he was King Uthari’s loyal man and would do whatever his master wished. She shouldn’t feel gratitude toward him or anything at all.
But… he’d showed up in time to save her life. What if he hadn’t?
She rinsed her hands and splashed cool water on her face, trying to wash away those thoughts. He was as dangerous to her and to Jak—especially to Jak—as any of them. It would be easier to remember that if he were more like Tonovan, but she was glad he wasn’t.
“I’ve been thinking, Mother,” Jak called from the kitchen, odd thumping noises punctuating his words.
Was he preparing their dinner? If so, that would be a delight—nothing like a dagger to the throat to stir one’s appetite—but he hadn’t mastered much more than sandwiches and had to be reminded to prepare even those.
“Thinking is something that I feel like I should, as your supportive mother, encourage,” Jadora said, walking out, “but usually, what you mean when you say that is that you’ve been scheming.”
“They’re very similar words.”
“Yet not adjacent to each other in the thesaurus.”
“Would it make you feel better if I’d been ruminating? Or contemplating? Or cogitating? Those are thinking-adjacent.”
“I’m not sure I would believe you.” She found him next to the kitchen, stomping on the floor tiles. The counter was devoid of sandwiches or anything else resembling a meal. “For some strange reason.”
“Malek said the shield around this castle protects everyone inside from intruders.” Jak walked into the parlor, stomping along the way. The thuds sounded solid. “So how did enemies get in?”
“Bribing or compelling the guards to lower it long enough for them to come in?” Jadora asked, though she remembered Malek saying the shield hadn’t gone down.
“I don’t think so.”
As Jak stomped around the room and into the bedrooms, Jadora found a ham, carrots, and potatoes in the magical icebox and drew them out to prepare a meal. There was something surreal about groceries appearing in the kitchen—or even having a kitchen—in the rooms that were their prison. As she sliced the vegetables and heated a pot of water to boil—the flames that powered the cooktop came on with a touch—she thought of the farmers who’d worked hard to grow the food, only to have their crops taken by mages who never had to work hard to produce anything. Admittedly, Jadora didn’t produce anything either, unless one counted the papers she wrote for publication and the classes she taught, but she paid for the groceries she consumed.
“Nothing.” Jak sighed as he walked out of his bedroom and flopped down on the couch. “I guess that would have been too much to hope for, but we are on the bottom floor of this place.”
“Were you searching for secret passages?”
“Maybe not anything as obvious as that, but I thought there might be ducts or maintenance shafts or something. I know magic keeps these cities in the air, but I doubt twenty mages are sitting in a room somewhere holding hands and concentrating around the clock to keep it aloft. They must have built tools that do the job. Remember that glowing engine on the mageship? And how it had tendrils that stretched out all over the hold and through the walls to other parts of the ship? There has to be a power infrastructure like that for the city too, most logically built into the platform that everything rests upon.” He pointed at the floor. “And if we assume that it sometimes needs maintenance, then there have to be crawlspaces down there all over the place so mages can get to the different sections. Oh, I suppose with their power they could repair things remotely, but those intruders had to come from somewhere. Maybe they came up through the floor.”
“Is that why you want to go to the library? To see if there are schematics for the city’s infrastructure?”
“That wasn’t my original reason, but do you think there would be? I’d expect those to be somewhere more private, like the architect’s office or maybe a room where the maintenance people work. Still, if it’s the king’s private library, maybe he’s not worried about the riffraff wandering in.”
“What was your original reason? I don’t object—it’s a good idea—but you’ve roused my curiosity. You said something about atlases.”
“Because of that last rubbing.” Jak brought his stack over, unfolded them, and smoothed the wrinkles out of the topmost one. One corner was ripped, and the wrinkles defied smoothing.
“When my team makes rubbings in the field, we usually store them in folders to preserve them for travel.”
“Is your team usually hurled against walls by mages?”
“More so now than in the past.” Jadora shook her head, wondering again if the rest of her team had made it home, and also wondering what she would tell them—and the entire faculty of the university—about Darv if she ever made it home.
“We live in treacherous times.” Jak held up the collection of dots. “Does this look like anything to you?”
“My mind went to chemistry and started looking for patterns related to science, but no. Although with your choice of a dark-blue crayon, it reminds me of a night sky.”
“Exactly. That’s what I think it is. The dots are stars. This is a constellation.”
“You knew that when you picked the blue crayon?”
“I had a hunch from the dots. Last semester, I took astronomy, and we made star charts.”
“Which constellation is it?” She tilted her head to look at it sideways, then reached out, turning the paper in Jak’s hands. Once it was in the new direction, it was more familiar. “The Dragon’s Tail?”
“That’s my guess.”
“The Dragon’s Tail constellation is only visible from the Southern Hemisphere. I’ve only traveled down there and had the opportunity to see it once.” The druid civilization she’d brought up with Malek lived on Zewnath, the Jungle Continent, and she’d been invited on an expedition early in her career to research and gather rare herbs that grew only at altitude there. The druids, and the terrene humans that lived there, had been sparse, and her team had only interacted with a few traveling merchants and nomadic herbalists.
“I’ve only seen it in books,” Jak said. “And I want to verify it by looking at a star chart. Hence the library request.”
“What about all these other rubbings?” Jadora waved to the stack. “Did you recognize any other constellations?”
Jak frowned. “No. None at all. That’s what has me doubting myself and wanting to verify this one. It’s possible this is a coincidence and that the dots represent something else…”
“Which symbols were next to that grouping of dots? Do you remember?” Jadora shuffled through his stack, but he’d done the rubbings, so he would have a better chance of recalling.
“That one, I think.” Jak slid a page out of the stack. “It was on one side, and this is the one that was on the other.” He pulled another page out and set it next to the first. “I have no idea what these symbols are. Father mostly studied the dragon language and didn’t put notes about many of the ancient human tongues in his journal. I’ve been surprised the portal isn’t covered in runes from their language, at least not that we can see.”
Jadora placed her elbow on the counter and gripped her chin as she studied the papers. One wasn’t familiar at all, having strange hashmarks that could have been made by a drunken chicken doing pirouettes in the dirt. The other one…
“Maybe the books in the library will help,” Jak said. “I was thinking the star charts, if that’s what all of the groupings of dots are, could be a clue as to where the portal must be placed in order to work.”
She looked at him. “You think it has to be placed in a certain location? I don’t remember that in Loran’s notes.” The vision she’d had—that the portal had given her—came to mind of a valley with the ancient artifact in use in the center.
“There wasn’t anything specific, but he made a lot of references to it being located in a remote location and people and dragons having to travel long distances to use it. If it could work from anywhere, why wouldn’t they have moved it to a central and more populated location? We’ve seen that it’s not hard for mages to move it around, and dragons were a lot more powerful than even the most talented humans.”
“That’s an interesting point. If you’re right, then even if Uthari gets the key, he wouldn’t be able to activate the portal from his courtyard.” Dare she hope that was true? “And these symbols could be crucial in figuring out where it does work.”
“That’s what I’m thinking.”
Jadora shuffled through the symbols again. “The thing is… I don’t think these are languages of our world. There were only so many ancient civilizations that developed written languages, and after five years immersed in archaeology—not to mention all the years Loran would share his findings with me—I’m familiar with a lot of extinct languages. The probability of there being thirty-two that I don’t recognize having been placed on this ancient artifact is low. Especially when the portal is supposed to pre-date written languages altogether.”
“I thought that was weird too. Is it possible they’re from the dragon world? All of them?”
“Wait. Here’s one that’s somewhat familiar.” Jadora turned one of the papers that he’d singled out upside-down. It featured a grouping of symbols with little feathers—or were those leaves?—as accents on the curving lines. “I’ve seen another language on Torvil with leaf and branch accents. It belongs to the druids I was just thinking about. Their people have maintained a close link to nature throughout the millennia that they’ve lived on their continent Zewnath. Their continent Zewnath in the Southern Hemisphere.”
A thrum of excitement ran through her. They had no proof that the dots pointed to places where the portal could be placed to work, but the possibility was enough to tantalize her.
“But where would we start to look once we arrived in Zewnath?” she mused, assuming they could figure out a way to travel thousands of miles with the portal. She couldn’t envision it, except by working with Uthari’s people. The idea of getting the portal to work so the arrogant mages could go through it first and make contact with dragons… It didn’t bother her any less today than it had five years ago.
“You could spend a lot of time searching,” Jak said. “It’s the smallest of the continents, but that doesn’t mean much. It’s five million square miles, not to mention the chains of islands stretching off in two directions.”
“I have some contacts down there—there’s a team of archaeologists from the Temril Kingdom with a permanent base of operations there, and I made a good impression on the local herbalists, so—”
The door opened.
Jadora swore and shoved the two rubbings to the bottom of the stack as Malek walked in. “Do zidarr not knock?” she blurted, hoping to distract him before he could start reading their minds.
“Rarely.” Malek looked blandly over at them, glancing at the papers.
“What if we’d been in here naked?”
He quirked an eyebrow at her. “Then my evening would have grown more interesting.”
“Gross.” Jak made a face, either at the thought of his mother’s nudity—or of a man finding it interesting—and took his stack of rubbings into the parlor.
Jadora hoped he was keeping his mind free of thoughts. The last thing she wanted was to share their suppositions with Malek. Just because he hadn’t found the key yet didn’t mean he wouldn’t, and once he had the key, the portal, and knew where to take it…
She shoved her own thoughts aside, doing her best to blank her mind, and stirred the forgotten potatoes and carrots boiling on the stove. Instead of trailing Jak into the parlor to look at the rubbings, Malek strode toward the kitchen. Even though she didn’t want him showing an interest in the rubbings, his approach unnerved her.
Malek set a book and a small blue clay jar on the counter. “This cream is made by a local alchemist and can heal simple wounds so that they leave no scar.” He gestured toward her bandaged neck. “Only a small amount is needed. Do you wish assistance in applying it?”
“Are you offering to rub my neck?” she asked, startled.
He cocked his head, as if puzzled by the question. “I am offering to rub healing cream into your wound, since it is in an area you may find difficult to treat yourself.”
“I think I can manage it. Thanks for bringing it.” Feeling oddly flustered, Jadora turned the book so she could read the title. “The Mind Way by Divine Patriarch of the Sacred Monastery Dok Fran. You brought me a book to teach me how to keep mages out of my mind? Won’t you find it inconvenient if you can’t read my thoughts?”
“It takes many years of meditation and practice to learn the ways of the monks. I will have accomplished my mission long before you master the techniques.”
“Your confidence must excite your king.”
“He expects my competence and is indifferent to my confidence.”
“Does he punish you if you fail him?” Jadora wondered how close Malek was with Uthari.
In the literature, the zidarr were always depicted as supremely loyal, owing their training and in some cases their existence to the powerful wizards who trained them from an early age, but maybe those stories were exaggerated. Was there any way one of his kind could ever be loyal to, or at least sympathetic to, a terrene human? Maybe she ought to be nicer to him and try to…
Try to what, Jadora? Win his loyalty for herself? Little chance of that happening. Still, the thought made her wishful, if only because it would be much easier to achieve her goals with the portal if she and Jak had some powerful help.
“He rewards and punishes his people suitably to incentivize them.” If Malek was reading her mind, he didn’t comment on her thoughts.
“That sounds like a yes.” She pulled the vegetables off the heat.
“People are also rewarded and punished in your society.”
“Not with pain.”
“That is untrue. If you’re a homeless boy on the streets and you steal because you’re starving and have nothing to eat, you’ll be punished with a lashing, if not by having your hand chopped off.”
“In some less progressive cities, perhaps. But I doubt you were ever a homeless boy on the streets or that you speak from experience.” She eyed his face, imagining him long ago turned over to the zidarr for training and indoctrination by what must have been mage parents as powerful as he. From everything she’d read, such power—or at least the potential to develop it—was largely hereditary. He’d probably been coddled from birth as some future great warrior-wizard to serve his king.
“If you need nothing further, I will leave you to dine.” Malek headed for the door.
Jadora blinked, surprised by his abruptness. She hadn’t offended him, had she? Not with her words, but maybe with her thoughts. If she truly had a notion of winning his sympathy, she would have to try harder to keep her mind still around him.
“Wait,” Jak said, “what about the library? Can we go?”
“Tomorrow.” Malek departed, closing the door firmly behind him.
Jadora picked up the monk book, wondering if she could find any useful tips that she could employ right away. She didn’t have years to spend studying.
Blue and red dragons soared out of the portal as if they were flying out of the stars. They entered a lush green jungle with a great waterfall tumbling hundreds of feet into a deep blue pool. Huge colorful birds flapped out of trees, cawing and screeching as they took up more distant perches. A monkey chattered from a branch, then fled higher up into camouflaging fronds.
But the dragons had not come to hunt. Their wings flapped in ways Jak wouldn’t have dreamed possible—no bird had ever twisted its wings so—and performed aerial acrobatics over the trees. A few dove down to the water like ospreys, but they didn’t catch a fish and fly back up. They plunged into the depths and disappeared for several seconds before emerging to roll on their backs, flapping their wings in the water and splashing it about.
Playing. It had never occurred to Jak that dragons might play.
Something thundered in the distance, the noise reverberating through the jungle. Birds fled from trees, and animals scurried into burrows. The dragons climbed out of the water to stand on the side of the pool with their taloned feet gripping moist black rock half-buried in green undergrowth. With slitted reptilian eyes, they peered at each other and all around, and then one looked toward the portal—its starry center had disappeared after they’d flown out.
Another boom sounded, and the dragons sprang into the air. The portal came to life again, a field of stars appearing in the center, and they flew through it and disappeared.
Several quiet moments passed before a tree tumbled down, half blocking Jak’s view of the pool and the waterfall. He found he couldn’t move to change what he was able to see, but soon humans with chains and axes clambered into view. They wrapped the chains around the tree and harnessed them to a team of pokran and horses so they could pull it out of the way. More minutes later, carts appeared on a road freshly made in the jungle, wooden wheels rolling through the mud and smashed vegetation.
Men and women in togas and moccasins rushed forward with ropes and crude grappling hooks made from copper. They hurled the hooks toward the top of the portal, some missing but others catching.
Were they going to pull it down? Jak tried to yell a protest, but he had no ability to communicate with them. He could only observe as the scene played out on the stage.
Once the hooks were secured, the men and women attached the ropes to their team, just as they had with the tree. A feeling of uncertainty came to Jak. From the people? No. They were determined and had no doubt about their mission. From the portal? It seemed to wonder if these people were a threat and if it should defend itself.
Before it decided, the humans toppled the portal, the ground trembling as its weight struck down. The view started fading, going from lush greens and blues to gray. A man leaped atop the portal and pointed at the cart, then pointed off into the jungle or to some even more distant point. Commanding his people to move it someplace far, far away? As far away as a distant volcanic island on the other side of Torvil?
The vision faded into blackness, and Jak woke up.
He stared around the dark room, half-expecting to find himself back in that lush jungle. The vision had been so vivid that it took him a moment to remember where he was, his bedroom in Uthari’s castle. All was quiet; all was dark.
“Just a dream,” he muttered.
But something told him it had been more than that. Jak left his bed, padded to the window, and opened the shutters. From his room, he couldn’t see the entire courtyard, but he had a view of a corner of it. One side of the portal was visible, still lying on the ground, still guarded.
Two of those guards were talking in low voices and pointing at the portal. It was glowing a faint blue, highlighting the entwined dragons that made up its frame. Jak had never seen it do that before.
Had the guards done something to bring the portal to a higher level of wakefulness? Could that even happen? Or maybe this was some residue of magic from the battle that had taken place hours before. But if so, it should have come out then.
Can you hear me? Jak asked, though he doubted the portal would be able to understand him even if it could. He doubted even more that he had the ability to reach out to it without touching it directly.
The blue glow pulsed once, and the guards skittered back. One man pointed at the portal, then to an exit from the courtyard. The other guard ran off, to report this oddness, no doubt.
Is there something you want me to do? Jak asked, though he didn’t know if the portal had singled him out to share that dream—dream or memory of the past?—or if everyone in the castle had received the same vision.
Another blue pulse of light.
Do you want to be returned to that place? So dragons can fly through again? For the first time, it occurred to Jak to wonder why humans had gone to great lengths to topple the portal in the first place. And move it far, far away from the place it could be activated. If that was truly what had happened. Maybe his subconscious mind was making up stories that had nothing to do with facts. How often did his dreams actually make sense? Still, there was a magical portal glowing at him in response to his questions.
He received two more pulses of blue in response to those last questions. I’ve been separated from the key. Can you work without that?
The portal dimmed.
You need the key for us to open a portal back to the dragon home world?
Another pulse.
That’s what we thought. We’ll try to figure something out. I’m not sure if we can get you out of this castle though. That’s… a challenge. We’re prisoners here. Unless you can help us escape?
Jak didn’t know how that could happen, short of the portal hurling lightning bolts at everyone in the castle and blowing the doors open for him. How much power did it actually have? If it hadn’t been able to keep itself from being toppled, it wasn’t infinite. Or at least it couldn’t be used in infinite ways. So far, he’d only seen it act to defend itself.
Instead of pulsing at the question about escape, the portal fell dark. Once again, it was only blue-black metal under the lamps of the courtyard, appearing as lifeless as when they’d first dug it from the earth.
A few seconds later, someone walked into view—Malek. The guard who’d run off to tattle on the portal was trailing him, speaking and pointing at it.
Jak watched to see if Malek would be able to stir it to life—if he would try to.
Malek stopped, hands clasped behind his back as he regarded the portal, then turned his head to look straight at Jak.
Even though Jak hadn’t been doing anything wrong—at least he didn’t think so—fear clutched his heart, and he skittered out of view. He lay back on his bed, imagining scenarios where Malek stormed into his room and demanded to know what he’d been doing. Or ordering Jak to try to communicate with the portal on his behalf. On Uthari’s behalf.
But surely, Malek could speak with the portal as easily as Jak had. There was no reason to believe it preferred him over anyone else. He wondered if it was only that nobody else had tried to communicate with it.
Long minutes passed as Jak looked up at the ceiling and worried, but Malek never came to his room. He didn’t dare return to the window to see if he was still out there.
After what seemed like hours trickled by, Jak silently asked the portal if it was still listening. He didn’t get a response, nor did he see a blue glow through the window he’d left open. Tomorrow, he would try again to communicate with it.
Chapter 21
21
Sorath’s stump itched as he did push-ups in the out-of-the-way spot he’d found on the open deck of the Dauntless, the optimistically named mageship that was flying him and Thorn Company to Utharika.
He grimaced at the annoying tickle, but it was better than the pain that had been a constant companion the first few months after his hand had been severed at the wrist. That he could now put weight on the stump and wield his pickaxe like a weapon was a boon, a far better result than he’d once expected. He refused to feel bitter about the loss since so many men had lost their lives. His men.
Stone Heart had been right, the bastard. Sorath did have nightmares in which he relived that battle over and over with all the creative variety that his sleeping mind could conjure. The only things that never changed were the accusations on the faces of the dying. No matter how bad the nightmares, waking up and remembering that the battle had really happened was always worse.
Afterward, he’d tried alcohol, mushrooms, magebands—all manner of things to rob a man of his aspirations and take the edge off his pain. But it hadn’t lasted long. Everything had seemed a cheat. It was fairer that he remember, that he have the clarity to think of the men he’d lost and say apologies to their ghosts as he burned offerings under the full moons.
Now, as Sorath headed for another battle, he feared a repeat of his last. What if he once again survived while the women of Thorn Company were killed? He’d hoped exercise would keep him from dwelling on that possibility, but it was a distraction for his body, not his mind.
Sweat slithered down his jaw and his spine as he switched from push-ups to squats, hefting a heavy coil of rope he’d found over one shoulder. His stump kept itching. He gritted his teeth and ignored it, making a note to wash it well before he put the harness back on that kept his pickaxe head tightly affixed.
His thighs soon quivered, a reminder that he’d been lax with his exercises lately. Anyone looking at his lean frame would still call him fit, but he’d once carried twenty pounds more of muscle.
Once he’d retired—been forced out of the mercenary business by his failure—and become an infrequent artifact hunter and full-time memoir writer, he’d seen little point in putting his body through the grind of fitness and weapons training. If he’d known he would end up here, sailing through cloudy skies the day before a battle that might be his last, he would have kept it up.
“There you are,” Captain Ferroki said, rounding the cabin on the deck that had been creating his private spot.
Startled, Sorath fumbled the big coil of rope, and it slithered off his shoulder. Though he caught it with his elbow, it was heavy enough to threaten damage to his joints, so he let it thump to the ground. He grabbed his pickaxe head and harness, so he could strap it back on. Since he usually only took it off to sleep and bathe—and perform the exercises that were hard to do with a tool for a hand—he felt naked without it.
No, that wasn’t accurate. Nudity didn’t bother him. Being seen without a hand—with nothing but the pink of his ugly stump visible—bothered him. He wasn’t even wearing a shirt with a sleeve that he could yank down. Because he had limited attire, he’d taken it off to sweat.
“I didn’t mean to startle you.” Ferroki lifted an apologetic hand.
“It’s fine. I didn’t expect anyone to come looking for me.” Sorath faced her, atypically clumsy as he buckled the straps of his harness.
She only watched for a moment, then looked off into the gray mist beyond the railing. Being polite. It was the usual response from adults. Only children gawked, their responses less practiced, more honest. He wouldn’t have minded if Ferroki wanted to look, but he would have preferred to be whole in front of her.
“I wanted to make sure you weren’t drinking yourself into a stupor somewhere,” she said.
“If my reputation suggests I do that frequently, then I’m aggrieved.”
“It doesn’t, but people change.” She glanced at the harness as he finished buckling it on. “Things change people.”
“Yeah.”
“And I wouldn’t blame you if you felt the need. I’m certainly having regrets about getting on that transport vessel. I should have demanded more details beforehand, but I’d assumed we would have the option to leave if the mission wasn’t to our tastes.” Her mouth twisted. “I don’t know why. Having the kings—or their zidarr—bully mercenaries into accepting contracts isn’t without precedent. Negotiations with the fox never go well for the chicken.”
“Chickens have to eat. When the foxes are in control of the feed, it’s hard to find a way to win.”
“Yes. It has been that way for a long time. The entire time I’ve been a mercenary. Sometimes, I question why I’m still doing this, leading a company and risking our lives day in and day out, but it’s all I’ve ever known. My parents were both soldiers, and it was what they taught me. I don’t have any other skills to offer the world.”
“Have you ever thought of being a caravan guard or bodyguard? It would be less dangerous, and the lives of others wouldn’t rely on your decisions.” Sorath grimaced, admitting that thought might bother him more than it bothered Ferroki.
“It’s not that easy. I learned early on that being a woman working in a world where the prevailing opinion is that men are more qualified means it’s harder to get a job. Even if you can, your employers don’t want to pay you as much. It’s better to work for yourself. It’s not necessarily an easier path, but you make the rules, and eventually, you can get regular clients who appreciate your worth and pay you fairly.”
“So you started your company from scratch?” He hadn’t known that. Most of the large mercenary outfits had been around for generations. Usually, one was promoted up through the ranks of an existing company. He’d done that and been second-in-command for Fang and Talon when the old commander died.
“I did. With four other women who were tired of working for oppressive employers. I enticed them to join me with tales of chickens outwitting foxes.”
“Cunning. Most people have to use money for enticement.”
Ferroki smiled but only for a moment. “The company grew over time, but I’ve lost all of those original four now. One retired from the mercenary business to have a family, but the rest were killed in battle.”
“You know what it’s like then,” he said softly, though he’d always sensed she did. Most mercenary commanders did, even if few had endured the debilitating number of losses he had.
“Yes.” Ferroki leaned against the railing. “I’ve had a look at the map of Utharika and have some thoughts. Do you want to join Sasko and me for a chat? We should have a plan of action.”
“I agree.” Sorath grabbed his shirt and tugged it on. “I’m ready.”
But Ferroki held up a hand. “Before we join the company… there was another reason I came looking for you.” She cleared her throat and looked at the deck. “The real reason.”
“You didn’t truly think I was drinking myself senseless? I’m flattered.”
“I came to apologize,” she said quietly.
Sorath studied her profile. With rich brown skin and warm dark eyes, a strong nose and jaw, Ferroki had always struck him as a handsome woman. Not necessarily beautiful in the classical sense but handsome. Today, with the gray mist from the clouds they were flying through softening her features, he noticed that she’d aged well, despite the arduous career, and he thought of the times their paths had crossed before. Of times he’d thought about asking her for a drink or a walk—or a kiss.
Being the commander of a company was lonely. One was always expected to have the answers and never show weakness. Unlike many of his men, he’d never married, never felt he should have a woman back home, not when the odds were so good of him dying and never returning to her, of leaving her with children to care for by herself. But he occasionally felt he’d missed out on the opportunity for companionship and regretted that he’d never had someone to confide in, someone to care for—and be cared for by.
“I’m sorry,” Ferroki went on, “that I came to your shop and got you involved. I’m sure you were enjoying your retirement, or at least enjoying not being shot at on a regular basis.”
“I wasn’t. There’s no need to apologize for that. Besides, I didn’t have to come after you or play hero at the hotel. I got myself into this.”
“Because you wanted to help us.” Ferroki lifted her gaze to meet his. “To help me. Honestly, I appreciate that you did.” She touched his arm, her eyes gentle.
It wasn’t the arm with the pickaxe but the healthy one that had all of its nerves functioning and had no trouble feeling the warmth of her touch through his shirt. For a moment, he regretted that he’d put it back on. Her touch on his skin would be even nicer.
“If I tried to take advantage of your guilt and gentle feelings toward me and kiss you, would you allow it?” Sorath raised his eyebrows and attempted to look appealing—and kissable—though he expected her to yank her hand back and step away.
She didn’t step away, but she hesitated before answering. “Yesterday, I would have, but today, you’re my commanding officer.”
“Ah.” Sorath wanted to rail at the world—why was she taking to heart that idiot zidarr’s suggestion that he be in charge?—but he forced a smile. “Hell, what was I doing yesterday?”
“Getting into trouble. The same as me.”
“Busy work.”
“Yes.” She lowered her hand and nodded toward the rest of the ship. “Shall we?”
“Lead the way, Captain.”
Malek arrived during breakfast to escort them to the library. Jak hadn’t had time to share his dream or the portal’s late-night blue throbbing with his mother. He’d asked if she’d had any dreams, and she’d gotten a haunted look in her eyes. He had a feeling that meant whatever nightmares had plagued her had been different from his. The mystery of why humans had toppled the portal—if that had indeed happened—was concerning but not haunting, and the dragons playing had been cute.
Jak stuffed a pastry in his mouth, grabbed his rubbings and the drawing tools he’d been given, and didn’t comment when he glimpsed his mother slipping a few vials into her pockets. More of whatever acid she’d thrown at the intruder? She’d never said exactly what that had been, but he’d caught her macerating some of the chilis from the icebox and scraping the seeds into a concoction the night before. Jak hoped they could get through the day without being attacked, but their chances seemed poor here.
As Mother gathered her books, Malek’s gaze lingered on her pockets, and Jak realized he must have seen her slipping the vials into them. He didn’t miss much. Jak waited for Malek to step forward and remove them, as he had with other things she’d pocketed, but he smiled faintly and stepped into the hallway to wait for them.
He couldn’t approve, could he? Not of Mother using her little weapons against him or any of his allies certainly, but maybe Malek believed she was more likely to use them on possible intruders and didn’t mind that. Still, his willingness to leave either of them with a weapon, however minor, was surprising.
Jak no longer knew what to think of Malek. To believe him an ally would be asinine, but since he’d apparently been tasked with protecting them as well as keeping them here, it was growing harder to loathe him.
As Jak stepped into the hallway with Mother right behind, he reminded himself that Malek may have been the one to kill his father. Just because these people were being decent to them for the moment didn’t mean that would continue. They wanted something, and once that had been accomplished…
“Malek,” a cool voice said as their group started down the hall.
A zidarr from the night before—Yidar, Jak remembered—jogged to catch up with him. He jostled Jak as he passed, not glancing his way or apologizing before falling into step beside Malek. Jak glowered at the back of his head, wondering if he should ask his mother if he could hold her vials.
Though he didn’t speak, his face must have given away his irritation, for she lifted a finger to her temple. The zidarr also looked back, his eyes slitted. Jak hurried to push any thoughts of attacking him out of his mind, realizing belatedly that he would read thoughts as easily as Malek.
“Yes, Yidar?” Malek asked, not looking back, not drawing more attention to Jak.
“The king’s spies have verified that enemy ships are flying toward our city, and a farm barge was destroyed outside of Jominar down below. The mage crew was killed.”
“I am aware. King Uthari has sent mageships to protect our resources and attack those of Zaruk, Vorsha, and Dy, the now-confirmed alliance that seeks to acquire Uthari’s artifact for themselves.”
“Rumor has it that it was originally their artifact.”
Malek looked sharply at him. “The portal was buried on that island millennia before any ancestor of Zaruk’s put a castle in the sky. He has no claim on it.”
Jak looked at his mother, wondering what she thought of the zidarr arguing, if it was anything they could use to their advantage. She only shook her head, touched her temple again, and nodded at Yidar’s back.
Another warning to watch his thoughts. She must have had a reason to believe Yidar was more dangerous than Malek. Or more likely to do something to Jak if he learned about Jak’s potential? A chill went through him as he realized that must be exactly what she was worried about. And what he should worry about. He emptied his mind of thoughts and gazed at the back of Malek’s head as they passed through an intersection and took a turn.
“Of course I agree with King Uthari,” Yidar said. “I have only been trying to reason through their alliance and determine how concerned we should be.”
“About three powerful wizards marshaling their forces against us?” Malek asked. “Concerned.”
“I believe so too. I suggested to the king that you and I should be the ones to go out with the mageships and do battle with those who approach. We could keep them from ever reaching our walls and doing damage to our people and our city.”
“Gorsith and General Tonovan left with the interceptor ships early this morning.”
“He is only one zidarr. And those three will send zidarr of their own into the war. The battle will be glorious.” Yidar clenched a fist as the group turned into a wider, more ornate hall, passing two soldiers positioned to guard it. “But Uthari refuses to send us all out of the city at once. Perhaps you should speak with him.”
“His priority is guarding the portal and those who can figure out how to make it work. As you saw last night, they are targets for our enemies. The main targets.”
They entered a wide chamber with marble columns supporting friezes of warriors, mages, and dragons below a gilded dome-shaped ceiling. Two towering doors stood closed on the far side. For a change, they were made from wood instead of gold, but the rich colors and whorls promised they’d been sourced from some rare and exotic species of tree.
Yidar looked back at Jak and Mother again. “It does not seem that babysitting scientists is a task worthy of a zidarr such as you, Malek. Does this one even have a use?” He pointed at Jak, his finger in the air in front of his nose.
Jak didn’t allow himself to contemplate biting that finger, not for more than a second. But maybe it was a second too long, for the zidarr held his gaze, his eyes flinty, his body radiating tension like a coiled spring.
“You do not like us, do you, boy?” Yidar whispered.
“They are our prisoners,” Malek said dryly, though he watched Yidar intently. “Would you not find it suspicious if they had warm thoughts toward us?”
“They should have respectful thoughts toward us, else they should be punished.”
Yup, that fleeting finger-biting thought had definitely gotten through. Jak didn’t even know what respectful thoughts would look like—should he imagine himself on his knees kissing Yidar’s boots?—so he attempted to think of nothing again.
“As you were pointing out,” Malek said, “we have larger concerns than what our insignificant and unarmed prisoners are thinking about us. Did you have a reason for searching me out?”
“Yes.” Yidar stopped and faced him, causing their procession to halt. “Uthari will listen to you if you argue that we should be allowed to go into battle. A high-level mage can babysit his artifact and archaeologists. This could be the battle of a lifetime, Malek. For us to sit it out would be intolerable.”
“I suspect we will see action.”
“If we were out there, we could keep that action from ever arriving on the king’s doorstep.” He lifted a hand and clenched a fist again. “You know our power, Malek.”
Malek appeared indifferent to their power. “Did Uthari give a reason why you aren’t allowed to go? There is little need for both of us to guard the artifact.”
“He believes that with so many ships being thrown against our city some will get through. He’s unwilling to be without us.” Yidar pointed at Malek, then his own chest. “But if you talk to him, he will listen. He confides in you in a way he doesn’t with Gorsith or me.” He sneered with bitterness that he didn’t try to hide.
“He will one day confide in you as well. In my first ten years serving him, the only thing he ever told me was that I wasn’t applying myself enough and that I needed to stop projecting my attacks.”
“As he says to me now. But I beat out nine other candidates for this position. I have applied myself every step of the way.”
Malek spread a hand. “He sees that, but he does not wish to foster arrogance in us, lest it lead to our downfall. When you earn it, his praise will mean more than if it had been given freely all along.”
The sneer sprang back to Yidar’s lips, but he tamped it down and sighed. “You are correct, of course.”
Yidar looked toward a painting of a mage on a flying chariot hunting elk in a forest, but his gaze was speculative rather than accepting. His abrupt shift to acquiescence didn’t feel authentic to Jak.
“I accept that I must serve for more years before I’m considered as zidarr as you, but I still believe he is wrong about stationing us both in his castle. I believe that you especially could make a difference out there.” Yidar looked back to Malek. “What if I were to guard the artifact and the archaeologists while you joined Gorsith in the sky? Should not at least one of us get to fly out into this magnificent battle?”
Alarms sounded in Jak’s mind. When he looked at his mother, he found an equally worried expression on her face. For some reason, this zidarr was trying to get Malek out of the castle.
The question made Malek’s expression turn wistful. Even if he hadn’t admitted it, he must long to be out there in battle. Not, as Yidar said, stuck here babysitting archaeologists.
“That is not Uthari’s wish,” Malek said.
“If you asked him, he would let you go. I may not be as powerful a wizard and warrior yet as you—” was it only in Jak’s mind that Yidar’s voice oozed flattery? “—but I am capable of guarding a hunk of metal and two people. We easily defeated their incursion teams from last night. They sent a boy zidarr barely old enough to have gained the title and too weak-minded to keep from being manipulated. He was probably on his proving mission. Our enemies can’t want that artifact very badly if that’s what they fielded.”
“Perhaps those teams were largely sent to gather and send back information on the portal’s whereabouts and were not intended to succeed. A communications gem was found in the zidarr’s pocket.”
“One does not throw away a zidarr, however young and inexperienced. We are too valuable for that. Just as you are too valuable to stay here while a battle rages in the clouds.”
Malek gazed thoughtfully at Yidar. Realizing the man was trying to manipulate him? Or contemplating his offer? How badly did Malek want to be out there? And what happened if Jak and his mother were left behind with Yidar? For that matter, had Malek and the others ever figured out how that incursion team had gotten into their highly secure castle? Maybe Yidar had let them in. Maybe he’d been bought off by the other side.
Worried by Malek’s long silence and thoughtful expression, Jak caught himself willing Malek to read his mind, to grasp how suspicious this setup was.
But it was Yidar who spun toward him, eyes wide with incredulity. “This boy has magic.” Moving so quickly that Jak didn’t have time to react, Yidar lunged in and grabbed him by the shirt. “You are a wild one! And you’ve hidden it. He is past the age, Malek. He must be slain.”
Fiery pain erupted in Jak’s chest, and he cried out, back arching as he tried to pull away from the zidarr. It felt like his heart was being torn out. His vision blacked, and his pulse pounded in his eardrums, wild and erratic—and in danger of being halted forever.
As abruptly as the magical attack started, it stopped, leaving him gasping. Malek twisted Yidar’s wrist and jerked him away from Jak.
At the same time, Mother yelled, “Let him go, you bastard!” Something splashed against Yidar’s flesh. The contents of her vial. It shattered as it hit the marble floor.
Yidar roared, stumbling back. “What is that?”
He wiped at his face and lifted a hand, fingers curled like claws. Jak stumbled in front of his mother, hoping he could protect her from an attack. If only he knew how to use his supposed magical power.
Malek stepped in to keep Yidar from hurting them again, not by stopping Yidar from trying, but by raising a magical shield. Jak couldn’t see it, but he could sense it. If he hadn’t been gasping and trying to recover, his chest raw from whatever the bastard had done, he would have worried that he could sense such things now.
“You protect them?” Yidar roared.
“As I was commanded to do.” The dry humor had disappeared from Malek’s tone, but it remained calm, unperturbed in the face of Yidar’s rage.
Jak hoped he knocked the other zidarr on his ass.
“The king doesn’t know that he’s a wild one, does he?” Yidar pointed past Malek’s shoulder at Jak but only for a moment before snarling and wiping his sleeve vigorously across his face. “Gah, that burns like alcohol on fire. Did you know they have weapons?”
“The king is aware that he has potential,” Malek said, ignoring the second question. “I tested him. It is insignificant, and he will not be a threat.”
“The laws of the sky kingdoms say to slay all terrenes who develop power too late to be brought into the fold.” Yidar lowered his arm, his face incredulous—and ridiculous since one of his eyes was squinted closed as tears leaked from it. “It does not matter how significant. You know that.”
“We need them to decipher the secrets of the artifact. After that, the boy can be slain.”
Jak hoped he was appeasing the other zidarr and had no intention of killing him. It was hard to tell with his flat and indifferent tone.
“You play with fire, Malek.”
Malek snorted. “An untrained boy is no threat.” A hint of amusement crept into his voice. “He’s not the one who stung you.”
“Stung me? That bitch burned my eye half-out. What if that shit damages my vision?”
“You will recover. Go wipe your face, and then bring your weapons for a sparring match. You can take out your aggressions on me.”
Yidar looked scathingly at Jak, making it clear who he wanted to be aggressive with. Jak did his best to appear unafraid and defiant, but his chest still ached. Why had Malek invited Yidar to return?
The zidarr backed toward the exit but warned, “Do not listen to his thoughts, Malek. He seeks to trick you. I heard him.”
“I am not easily deceived,” was all Malek said, not moving until Yidar left the chamber.
Malek eyed the shattered vial on the floor and the moisture around it. Whatever Mother had made from ingredients in the suite, it wasn’t enough to steam a hole through the tiles and reveal the secret ducts or tunnels Jak still hoped to find. Malek flicked a finger, and flame—or pure molten magic—incinerated the evidence and dried the liquid.
“Professor Freedar,” he said.
“Yes?” Mother gripped Jak’s shoulder and stepped up beside him.
“I suggest you study The Mind Way with your son. His thoughts are dangerous to him.” Malek looked at Jak. “He didn’t have to read your mind to hear your accusations. You projected them telepathically.”
“I…” Had he? Crap.
Mother’s face grew bleak—bleaker.
“The book.” Malek walked around them, waving to open the double doors, then nodding for them to go in while he waited outside. Were he and Yidar going to spar out here? It was more of a foyer than a gymnasium.
“We’ll read it together,” Mother said firmly and walked into the library.
But Jak hesitated, worried Yidar would keep trying to convince Malek to leave the castle while he stayed. Jak had little doubt that if Malek left, he and Mother would be dead before sunset.
“Is what I thought possible?” Jak asked quietly.
They were alone in the chamber, the guards too far down the corridor to hear, but Jak felt like he was suggesting something that could get him killed.
“That Yidar means to betray us?” Malek asked. “The zidarr are trained from childhood to follow the Code and loyally serve their king.”
“So there’s no chance he could have been the one to let enemies in to try to kill us?”
“He would gain nothing from doing so.”
“What if he’s been subverted by your enemies? Offered a higher position or a bunch of money?”
“Any king who managed to subvert a zidarr would then know he could not trust the zidarr himself. We are loyal and incorruptible, some of our power coming from the wizard who early in our training infuses his into ours.” Malek touched his chest. “Yidar is young and not diplomatic, but he is not a traitor.”
Jak bit his lip, worried that Malek’s faith in his Code and his own loyalty would make it impossible for him to believe someone else could be corrupted.
“Stay away from him if you can,” Malek added, “and keep your mind still when you can’t. It would not be treasonous for him to kill a wild one. He is right that it is the law, for the safety of our people.”
“Your people hardly need extra safety measures.”
“Once we did. Mages were feared, cast out, and hunted because they were different.” Malek gazed into his eyes. “You must know this, even if you are young. The history textbooks explain how our kind were forced to band together and learn to defend ourselves.”
“Uh. That wasn’t in my textbook.”
“If that is true, the faculty and curriculum used for teaching at your university are due for an audit.” Malek waved Jak into the library and shut the doors behind him.
Chapter 22
22
Tezi sat alone on the deck, the mist dampening her copy of Thanok’s The Teachings. She kept reading the lines about how those who chose the righteous path over the easy one would be rewarded, if not in this life then in the next. Her father had been a big believer in working hard and selfless sacrifice and had quoted often from the book, and he’d died to a zidarr’s blade for trying to keep his daughter from being taken. She hoped he truly was being rewarded now in the afterlife.
The captain and Sorath walked into view, waving for Lieutenant Sasko to join them. Some of the other mercenaries who were out on the deck, braving the weather to sit together in groups instead of being closed off in the tiny cabins they’d been assigned belowdecks, looked over at them. But it was a private meeting, and nobody else was invited. A planning meeting.
“Rookie,” Sergeant Tinder called from where she sat cross-legged next to Dr. Fret and two other women. “Come over here.”
“Yes, Sergeant.” Tezi closed her book, walked over, and stood in an uncertain parade rest in front of them. “Do you need something, Sergeant?”
“Yeah. For you to sit down and stop looking so glum. And like you’re praying that you won’t die tonight.” Tinder slapped the deck beside her, careful not to disturb the fuses and canisters she had lined up as she assembled explosives.
Seated on her other side, Fret was knitting something that looked like a fancy bag. Whatever it was, it was less destructive than explosives. Corporal Basher leaned against the railing, smoking a fat cigar that smelled like burning foot fungus.
“You don’t think praying for the success of this mission would be useful?” Tezi sat cross-legged, emulating Tinder and careful not to bump anything laid out before her. Were this a sailing ship, she couldn’t have done such fine work out on the deck, but other than the occasional breeze sweeping across the mageship, there was no movement to worry about.
“Divine intervention would be useful,” Tinder said, “but I doubt that you muttering passages in The Teachings will cause it to occur.”
“My father used to sing the passages.”
“I’m sure that made a huge difference.”
“He had a nice voice.” Tezi swallowed and stared at the deck, trying to push aside the memories of her family. She accepted them when she was alone, and it didn’t matter if she cried, but she didn’t want to show any of these hardened warriors her weaknesses.
“He gone, kid?” Basher asked.
“Yes.” Tezi hesitated. “Mother too.”
“Figured it had to be something like that. Most little girls with loving, supportive families don’t run off to join mercenaries.”
“They were loving and supportive,” Tezi murmured.
Tinder swatted Basher’s boot. “Quit getting her weepy.”
“She arrived like that.”
“No, I didn’t.” Tezi hadn’t shed a tear, and she didn’t intend to. Maybe her eyes were filmed, but she blinked away any moisture that might give her away.
“Get pissed at whoever or whatever killed them,” Tinder advised Tezi. “You’re supposed to build up your aggression before going into battle, like a tea kettle with the lid on and the water boiling. Then when you’re on the field, you let it blow against your enemies.”
“Is that what Dr. Fret is doing?” Tezi pointed to the balls of yarn slowly transitioning into a bag.
“Yeah. See how quickly she thrusts and stabs with those needles? You can feel her aggression building.”
Fret, who even during weapons training seemed no more aggressive than a recently fed cat lounging in a sunbeam, lifted her eyebrows. “I have defeated enemies with these needles, you may recall.”
“Rats nibbling on the yarn in your knitting bag don’t count as enemies,” Tinder said.
“I was referring to the handsy sailor at the tavern last month who was determined to get me to sit in his lap. Though the rats were also large and offensive.”
“With equally foul breath.”
“Indeed.”
Tezi smiled, feeling for the first time like a part of the company. Tinder and Fret were engaged in the same banter as usual, but they were acknowledging that she existed.
Lieutenant Sasko, who’d finished her meeting with the captain and Sorath, approached the group. “Tinder, you know the mages gave us a huge pile of magical explosives, right?”
“I do.”
“Did you check them out? It’s probably not necessary for you to waste your own materials making black-powder grenades.”
Tinder gave her a frank look. “The magical explosives glow pink and are shaped like mushrooms.”
“It’s more of a red glow.”
“With all due respect, LT, you’re colorblind. They’re pink. I’m not throwing pink glowing mushrooms at my enemies. We may be women, but we’re also mercenaries. We have standards.”
Fret nudged her. “Do you want tassels on your grenade cozy?”
“It’s an ammo pouch, not a cozy.”
“Of course. Do you want tassels on it?”
“Yes, please.”
The lieutenant rolled her eyes and walked away.
Tinder reached over and thumped Tezi on the shoulder. “Give us the story of the hotel, kid. The captain hasn’t said anything, and Sorath isn’t that approachable, but it was clear from what that zidarr said on the transport vessel that you all killed some mages.”
Ah, that was why Tezi had been invited over. For gossip. Well, it was better than being ostracized.
“I’ve been instructed not to…” Not to what? The captain hadn’t said she couldn’t talk about it, just that they shouldn’t admit to anyone they had killed a mage. That did seem wise, but was there any point to hiding it when that zidarr had figured it out? Besides, the idea of letting Colonel Sorath take all the blame didn’t sit well with her. “Incriminate myself,” she finished with a helpless shrug.
“Incriminate yourself? Does that mean you killed someone?” Tinder gaped at her, then elbowed Fret. “Our rookie killed someone.”
“I didn’t say that.” Tezi’s cheeks warmed.
“It was one of the mages, right? Not some poor innocent that you were trying to save.”
“Nobody innocent died. I mean, not by our hand.” She was flustered and stumbling over her tongue. Maybe she should have kept reading and ignored the invitation to come over.
Tinder scrutinized her. “Yeah, I believe you. You’re actually not horrible with a magelock.” Tinder elbowed Fret again. “She hit one of those cranky guards in the shoulder when that skirmish broke out in the magistrate’s office, remember?”
“I remember,” Fret said calmly, continuing her knitting and sounding far less intrigued with the story of the hotel than Tinder. Maybe as a healer, she didn’t like hearing about people being killed. Even mage people.
“You might be all right when we storm the king’s castle, Rookie. Just get used to everyone there having a way to defend themselves from bullets and magelock charges. Unless you can break their concentration first by blowing up a grenade in their faces.” Tinder smiled and patted her ceramic shells lovingly.
“For most people, that would just blow off their heads,” Basher said around her cigar.
“Mages aren’t like most people.”
“No kidding. Explain to me again why we accepted this mission?”
“Because it’s a war, we’re mercenaries, and we don’t get paid if we don’t fight,” came a voice from the side—the captain.
Basher yanked out her cigar and scrambled to her feet to salute. “Sorry, ma’am. I know that.”
Everyone else started to stand to do the same, but the captain patted the air for them to stay seated. She particularly looked concerned that Tinder might rise and accidentally kick a grenade down the deck to explode.
“At ease,” the captain said. “I just need Rookie Tezi.”
“Rookie Tezi the sniper,” Tinder said with a grin.
The captain raised her eyebrows. Tezi knew it was a joke but still had to fight the urge to bury her face in her hand. She hoped the captain didn’t think she’d been bragging about her role in the hotel incursion. She’d barely done anything there.
“We might make that true,” the captain said.
Surprised, Tezi stood up at attention. “Ma’am?” she asked uncertainly.
The captain held up her finger. “Tinder, you know there are magical explosives, right?”
That earned another eye roll from the sergeant. “They’re pink mushrooms, Captain.”
The captain arched her eyebrows. “They have a handle that you chuck them by, like a throwing axe, but I wouldn’t consider that a mushroom stem.”
“They have stems and caps. They’re either mushrooms or penises. I think some mage with a disrespectful sense of humor made them that way on purpose to mock the female mercenary unit.” Tinder shook her head. “Even if it was accidental, nobody will take pink grenades seriously.”
“They’re more of a red,” the captain said, “and if they’re not taken seriously, all the better. They’ll be more effective when they blow up.”
“I trust mine more.” The ceramic shells got another loving pat. “They’re proven effective, they’re made from reliable chemical ingredients, not magic, and they’re gender neutral.”
“Gender-neutral grenades are important?”
“Damn straight.”
The captain must have decided to end the conversation, but she scanned the rest of the group before leaving. “Nice tassels, Fret.”
“Thank you, Captain. They’re for Tinder’s grenade cozy.”
“It’s an ammo pouch.” Tinder glared at Fret, who only smiled as she continued knitting.
“See if you can work in some pink thread,” Basher said, drawing a similar glare.
“I don’t have that many colors, sadly,” Fret said. “If we survive and get paid well, maybe I can pick up some new yarn in one of the cities.”
“The reasons mercenaries risk their lives,” the captain murmured, then crooked a finger toward Tezi. “Come with me.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“The glowing grenades weren’t the only armament the mages supplied us with,” the captain said as they headed belowdecks, passing the grumpy captain of the ship along the way. Toggs, a mage loyal to Queen Vorsha, he’d introduced himself as. “It’s somewhat reassuring,” she added, “that they gave us extra tools and actually want us to win, not simply be annihilated while they send their own troops in.”
“I’m glad, ma’am.” Tezi kept herself from asking if it would make a difference against such powerful foes. What were the odds that their ship would be able to sneak in and get that artifact?
The captain led her to an armory with a green-uniformed mage standing guard out front, one of the crew that had come with the ship. He nodded and let them in.
Numerous magelock rifles hung from racks, shelves held crates of cannonballs and shells for the ship’s weapons, and bags of netted material held what Tezi could now only think of as pink glowing mushrooms. The captain ignored those and patted the long metal barrels and sleek wooden stocks of magelock rifles in a small rack by the door. They were the most impressive weapons in the armory. Their sights, trigger mechanisms, and other ornamentation were made from silver and highlighted with gold, including flying dragons engraved into the barrels and stocks.
“Those are the fanciest magelocks I’ve seen, ma’am.”
“And highly accurate. They’re enchanted with magic for superior aim and durability. Or so I was told.” The captain shrugged, acknowledging that since terrene humans were sense-dead, they had to take the word of mages when it came to how magical things were. Until the mercenaries actually used the weapons, they had no way to know how reliable or good they would be. “Pick one. Let’s try it out.”
Tezi blinked. “You want me to take one of the special magelocks?”
“Let’s see how good you are with one.”
“But it’s got gold on it,” Tezi whispered, afraid she would damage the thing or make it less valuable somehow.
“Everything mages make for themselves has gold. You may have noticed how many things in their cities are gilded.”
“I did. It was a little…”
“Ostentatious?”
“Especially the drinking fountain with the golden spout. There was a kid spitting in it when we walked past.”
“Mage kids aren’t any different from human kids until they get old enough to fling magic.”
“Is that the age they mature and stop spitting on things?”
“If that hotel was any indication, they never mature.”
The captain frowned, pulled two magelocks out of the rack, and thrust them into a charging box mounted on the wall by the door. It hummed, emitting soft thwumps as compact magic blasts of power similar to black-powder bullets were stored in the weapons. A glowing yellow tendril snaked from the bottom of the box through the deck and connected into the energy source that powered the mageship. When the thwumps stopped—far more than the usual ten or twenty charges had filled the weapons—the captain handed one of the magelocks to Tezi.
Thanks to the gold, or sturdier and higher-quality materials overall, it weighed much more than the short pistol Thorn Company’s armorer had issued Tezi when she joined. It was easily ten pounds, so doing long marches with it over her shoulder would be noticeable, but if it was a more accurate and longer-range weapon, the tradeoff would be worth it.
“The ship’s not large enough to test its accuracy over distance, but I want to see how you do with something better than that lizard plugger.” The captain waved to Tezi’s holstered magelock, then led the way out of the armory.
The crewman standing guard whistled as Tezi passed. The captain paused and frowned back at him. Tezi caught him checking out her butt.
“Sorry, ladies,” he drawled, winking at Tezi before looking at the captain. “I was admiring your assets.”
“There’s an old poem,” the captain said, “that goes: he who treats the dune crawler as a potential meal instead of acknowledging the power of its jaws and the sharpness of its teeth may find himself a macerated bloody pulp left beneath the desert sun for the vultures.”
The crewman’s forehead creased. “That’s a poem?”
“The poem of life,” she murmured.
“It didn’t rhyme.”
“I don’t think he got the point, ma’am,” Tezi murmured.
“They rarely do.”
The mist had grown thicker up on deck, with twilight encroaching, and Tezi could barely see from one end of the ship to the other. Maybe the pilot was deliberately keeping them in cloud cover in the hope of hiding their approach to Utharika. It was hard to believe that clouds could keep the mages from sensing the magic of the ship, but if the diversionary vessels were making a more blatant approach, maybe Uthari’s people wouldn’t think to look for the Dauntless.
Earlier, some of the women had set up a shooting range with a couple of wooden targets with crudely painted red bullseyes, and the captain led Tezi to a spot thirty yards from one. At such close range, Tezi knew she could hit the target without trouble, but having the captain next to her made her nervous.
“You’ve practiced with a rifle since you joined?”
“Yes, ma’am. Sergeant Tinder introduced me to a lot of weapons my first month.”
“Good.”
The captain readied her own rifle and fired first. Her practice charge thudded into the center of the bullseye, and red wood splintered off. Tezi wondered if she should point out that Tinder had taught them to fire the rifles from a prone position with their elbows propped on the ground for support. Given the height and closeness of these targets, Tezi would wrench her neck trying to fire that way now. She would have to keep her arms steady without support.
“Go ahead.” The captain rested the stock of her weapon on the deck and nodded encouragingly.
Tezi lifted the magelock, grimacing at the weight but relieved she could hold it up and steady—at least for long enough to shoot. When she’d first joined, she might not have been able to, but she’d made progress, even if the others didn’t see it.
She pressed her cheek to the stock, lined up the sights, exhaled and found her point of stillness, then fired. The blue charge of energy surged away, striking the target in the center and blowing away wood. She fired twice more at the adjoining targets, more because she worried she wouldn’t be able to hold the heavy weapon up and steady for much longer than out of a desire to show off, and she hit the bullseye on those two.
“We might have found your special gift, Rookie,” the captain said. “When we finish our mission here, we’ll do some long-distance training with moving targets.”
“Yes, ma’am.” Tezi decided to find it encouraging that the captain said when we finish rather than if we survive.
“You taking her on the incursion team?” Sorath asked.
Tezi hadn’t realized she had more witnesses than the captain and blushed.
“She needs more training first,” the captain said. “But what do you say to having her up here shooting over the railing and protecting our backs while we try to get that artifact out of Uthari’s castle?”
Sorath nodded. “I’d feel better about that than about your sergeant hurling explosives down all around us. A magelock is a pinpoint weapon.”
“Sometimes explosives are handy,” the captain said.
“True. Give them to her.” Sorath pointed at Tezi.
“How do you feel about pink mushrooms, Rookie?” the captain asked.
“I’m not above using magical weapons, ma’am.”
“Good. You and Tinder can stand side-by-side and compare results.”
“Who will go in on the incursion team?” Tezi hadn’t expected to be chosen and told herself she was more relieved than disappointed about being left behind on the ship, especially since it sounded like she would still have an important role.
The captain looked at Sorath.
He shook his head. “They’re your people. You should pick. Let’s keep it to eight or ten though and put together a backup team in case we fail.”
“An optimistic thought.”
“I prefer logic and meticulous preparation to optimism,” Sorath said.
“I’m not opposed to those things, but the troops respond well to a butt pat now and then.”
“Interesting. Your command style is different from mine.”
“My troops are probably different than yours were.”
“True. Few of my men put tassels on their ammo pouches.” Sorath tilted his head toward the front of the ship. “The helmsman says we’re less than an hour out. Better get ready.”
Nerves fluttered in Tezi’s stomach. Would the unit truly survive this mission? Would she?
Chapter 23
23
The magnificence of the library couldn’t make Jadora forget that another zidarr had figured out Jak had magical power. Or the potential to learn it.
Though she was trying to do research, she couldn’t keep from fretting and frowning in his direction. None of this was his fault, but that didn’t make it any less distressing. Oh, how she wished she hadn’t brought him along on her dig. He would have resented her, but he wouldn’t have been in danger.
Thump, thump, thump. Jak stomped past, checking the floor tiles again.
In the first five minutes they’d been here, he’d found a star chart and verified that the dots on his rubbing matched perfectly with the Dragon’s Tail constellation. Now, he was back to searching for hollow spots under the floor.
As far as Jadora could tell, they were the only ones in the private library—Malek had shut and possibly locked the door after waving them in—but that didn’t keep her from wincing at his noise.
“Must you be so suspicious?” she breathed.
“Yes,” he whispered back. “I’m trying to find a way out.”
“Are you reading that book?” She’d foisted The Mind Way into his hands as soon as he’d finished with the star charts.
He needed to master the teachings of the monks even more than she did. He was toting it around, but she hadn’t seen him spend much time reading.
“Yes, but it’s full of fables. If they teach anything, it’s vague.”
“I saw them as lessons.”
“Vague lessons.”
“Read the third one,” she said. “The Serenity of the Turtle.”
“Oh, I’ll be sure to. Such scintillation cannot be missed.”
“Would you take this seriously? That zidarr almost killed you.”
Jak stopped at the table between rows of bookcases where she sat with atlases and linguistics tomes open before her. “I know, Mother. I’m aware. I’ll try to do better at not letting them into my head, but I want to focus on escaping, so we don’t have to worry about them picking up on stray thoughts.”
“I do as well, but we may not get an opportunity until…” Jadora looked toward the door, worried Malek or someone else would walk in on them.
It was also possible someone inside would overhear them. Before grabbing all the useful books she could find and sitting down, she’d peeked down all the aisles to look for people. She hadn’t seen anyone, but the library was vast, including two mezzanines that were roped off. When she’d touched a rope, contemplating going under it, a warning buzz had shot up her arm.
“The war starts?” Jak asked softly.
She nodded. “If there’s fighting and the zidarr are called away or distracted, that could be our opportunity to slip out, sneak to the harbor, and stow away on a cargo ship flying off to pick up cabbages.”
“We need to steal a ship, not stow away. We can’t give them time to catch up—you know they’d come after us. Besides, who sends barges to collect cabbages while the city is under fire?”
“Hungry mages.”
“Ha ha. Did you see that little winged ship in the harbor? It looked like a bird. I bet it’s fast. But we have to get out of the castle first.” Jak returned to stomping on the tiles.
Jadora ran her finger down the page of the book she’d dug out on the ancient druids of Zewnath. The distinctive leaf flourishes and curving lines made her certain that she’d been right with her guess, that the one familiar grouping of symbols from the portal was in their language. The book was on culture and history as much as linguistics, but there were examples of the druidic written tongue that had been translated. If she could find a match, that might be the clue they needed about where the portal had to be located for operation.
“Mother?” Jak stopped stomping and came to her table again. “Did you hear what Malek said before closing the door?”
“For you to stay out of trouble?” She flipped another page, running her finger down the columns.
“No, about mages being hunted long ago. That’s not true, is it? I didn’t sleep through my history class—I may have doodled a lot during it, but I was listening. We didn’t read many chapters from our textbook—it was mostly Professor Colindun giving lectures—but I don’t remember anything about that.”
Jadora paused, leaving her finger to mark her place. “He didn’t have you read Gorazar’s History of the World?”
“Just a few chapters here and there. It wasn’t so scintillating that I felt compelled to read pages that weren’t assigned.”
“What did he say about the Magic Wars and how the mages came to establish their cities?” Jadora didn’t like the thought that professors at the university—her own colleagues—might be teaching revisionist history.
“That the reason some people developed magical powers and others didn’t was debated but that those who did came to think highly of themselves and soon used their superhuman abilities to amass followers, take over governments, and coerce people into militaries and under their rule. Our people didn’t realize the threat until it was too late for our numbers to be an advantage. They started the Magic Wars, but by then, our failure was inevitable. Not only did the mages win, but the most powerful among them declared themselves wizards and rulers, and built the sky castles that eventually grew into entire cities in the skies. None of us terrene humans could reach them to attack even if we dared to.”
“Hm. The part after the wars is correct, but Malek’s version of how the schism first came about is closer to what I’ve read in Gorazar’s and in other texts from different cultures around the world. In the beginning, when people first started developing power, they were feared and shunned and often killed. Some believed dragons gave them their power, but at the time, it was also popular to believe the slavemasters in Hell created them to serve their needs. Supposedly, if you mated with one of their kind, you would lose your soul, and your children would be born demons. Back then, mages hadn’t refined their powers and learned to do the great things they’re capable of today. They were mostly clairvoyants who could do a few tricks. Killing them wasn’t as difficult, and humans did a lot of that.”
“So they banded together for protection?”
“And made a concerted effort to learn how best to channel their abilities and use them against any who threatened them. It’s not impossible to imagine that we would have ended up in this situation eventually anyway—” Jadora waved at their surroundings to indicate the city and their rulers, “—but it’s believed that one of the reasons they’re driven to keep us subjugated is fear that we’ll find a way to rise up again and destroy them.”
Clangs sounded on the other side of the doors. Yidar and Malek sparring? Hopefully, they would wear each other out and be too tired for mind reading.
“We just want equality, right?” Jak asked softly. “I know that’s what Father wanted, why he was looking for the portal and help from another world.”
“To have an equal say in government or to have them give us a piece of the world and leave us to govern ourselves, yes. For them to have to farm their own crops.” She snorted at the thought of one of the robed elitists in the castle pulling up weeds in a field. Malek might be unfazed by the idea, filing it under his zidarr duties, but he seemed rare among them.
“When Father used to talk about the dragon world, I wished we could all go live there with them.” Jak smiled. “I was only ten and wanted to explore.”
“I’ve had similar wishes.”
Jadora returned to studying the page, though it was a moment before she could focus again. She skimmed down the columns, the symbols barely registering until she spotted a match for the one in Jak’s rubbing.
“That’s it,” she whispered. “The translation is ‘waterfall pool in the jungle.’”
Jak sucked in a breath. “I dreamed about that place.”
“You dreamed? Or you touched the portal, and it gave you a vision?”
“I’m sure the portal gave it to me, but I was sleeping in bed at the time. I meant to tell you about it this morning, but Malek showed up early.”
“I haven’t dreamed about the portal, but I saw it in a vision when I touched it.” Jadora couldn’t believe she was talking so casually about visions, as if they were something that usually existed outside of psychedelic experiences.
Jak didn’t tease her. He was staring down at the translation.
“For me, it wasn’t a jungle or a waterfall,” she added. “It was an open valley.”
“Were there dragons in your vision?”
“Yes. Until the portal killed people.” She frowned at the memory. “Did you get a warning like that in yours?”
He shook his head and explained what he’d seen. His description of a waterfall tumbling into a pool in a lush jungle sounded exactly like what the ancient words etched on the portal implied.
“If that’s where it can be set up and activated,” she said, “why would it have shown me a different place? On what seemed like an entirely different continent? In another vision, the first one it gave me, it showed me dragons in an icy landscape with a sky that didn’t look like anything on Torvil.”
“Maybe those are all places it can operate, but they’re not all on this world. Mother.” Jak gripped her arm. “What if the portal wants us to take it someplace it can work, so the dragons can return to Torvil? Maybe it misses them. Maybe it’s been lonely buried under a volcano all this time.”
“I’m not ready to ascribe human emotions to an ancient artifact, but I can believe it’s trying to communicate something to us.”
“That it wants us to take it home.”
“Let’s not forget the warnings in our visions,” she said. “Humans died in one of mine.”
“Because they attacked it, right?”
“Yes, but why did they attack it? And why did they tear it down in your vision? Jak…” Jadora scowled down at the page. “It’s possible the dragons weren’t our allies, and the people who attacked the portal and tore it down did it because they were afraid of it. Or because something bad had come through it to our world.”
“Not the dragons. We wouldn’t have a whole religion with a benevolent dragon god if we’d believed that.”
“There’s a religion on Yorakka Island where they worship ferns. Humans can conjure up strange notions to help them make sense of a tumultuous world.”
“But are they benevolent ferns?”
Jadora sighed and leaned back in her chair.
“Look, it’s asking for our help. I’m sure of it. If we take it there and set it up, and something bad happens—” Jak jerked his head toward the library entrance. “Did you hear something?”
“Besides the clash of swords through the door?”
“Yeah.” He lowered his voice to a whisper. “I think someone’s in here with us.”
He left the table to peer into nearby aisles and out the tall windows in the back of the library.
Jadora hadn’t heard anything. She closed the book and debated whether or not to stuff it behind a row of books where it would be difficult for someone to find again. If she’d found the translation, Malek could too. And who knew if the portal was giving him visions? Maybe he would be able to connect the translation to a dream and figure out where the portal needed to go to be activated.
But someone with magic might be able to easily find a book out of place behind a shelf. She could take it with her, but it was old and heavy, and as soon as Malek saw her carrying it, he would know she’d found something in it.
“You wish to leave this place?” a woman asked from behind her.
Jadora almost fell out of her chair.
“I knew it,” Jak blurted, rushing back into view. He carried a bust from a pedestal, as if he meant to use it as a club.
But the woman was familiar. This was one of the servants who’d delivered their belongings to them on the first day. Altrucia. Her lank brown hair hung limply under a mageband circling her head, but her eyes weren’t glazed today.
Jadora turned to face her. “What did you say?”
“You know a way out?” Jak added.
“I know the castle well. I have served here for many years. I have also seen what happens to those the king brings here for advice or because they have knowledge that is useful to him.” Altrucia looked pointedly at Jadora. “He never wishes their knowledge to fall into the hands of his enemies, so once they deliver it to him, he makes them disappear.”
“I feared that might be true,” Jadora said.
“Come.” Altrucia waved. “I will show you a way out.” Steel screeched beyond the doors, and she winced. “But we must hurry. If they catch me helping you, I will be punished.”
“Won’t they punish you anyway?” Jak asked. “When they realize we’re gone and had help getting out?”
“No. Because we will all escape together. I have a husband I have not seen in more than ten years.” Altrucia pointed to the floor—or to the land thousands of feet below the city. “Even though I know of all the hidden passages in the castle, I’ve never dared use them. But you have friends coming. They will retrieve you, and you will take me with you, yes?” Her eyes gleamed with hope.
“Uh,” Jak said.
“We’ll take you with us as far as we can,” Jadora said, “but I’m afraid we don’t have any friends coming to help. We’ll have to steal a ship from the harbor and hope we can figure out how to fly it.”
“Only someone with magical power can operate their vessels, but are the king’s enemies not your allies?” Altrucia frowned. “I overheard the king say that mercenary companies would be sent in to try to retrieve you and the artifact.”
“That’s possibly their intent.” Not because of friendship but because King Zaruk also wanted Jadora, Jak, and the portal. If they succeeded in kidnapping them, it would be jumping from one imprisonment to another. Jadora was about to explain that but paused as a new thought bloomed. Mercenary companies? If the kings working against Uthari had hired mercenaries, was it possible that Thorn Company was among them? If so, would there be a chance to join up with them? Maybe the women could once again be convinced to help. Maybe they even still had the key.
Horror jolted Jadora as she realized that they might, if they truly were on their way here to fight, bring the very key Malek and Uthari were searching for and inadvertently drop it in their hands.
“We might be able to get a ride from some mercenaries,” Jak said. “But it’s also possible I could fly a craft. I have… knacks.”
Jadora blinked and looked at him. “You don’t know how to use any of your knacks yet.”
“Maybe there are tips in this book.” He held up The Mind Way.
“About flying mageships? I doubt The Serenity of the Turtle has a lot of advice on aerial navigation.”
“Mother.” Jak rolled his eyes in exasperation. “Let’s get out of here and figure it out later.”
Altrucia nodded firmly.
“I’m just worried that we’ll trade one master for another,” Jadora said, “and that our next babysitter won’t be as even-keeled as Malek.”
Altrucia shook her head and whispered, “Malek is not cruel or prone to outbursts like some of the others, but if his master orders him to torture or kill you, he will. He is completely Uthari’s man. Do not believe you are safe with him. He is a weapon without feelings, without remorse.”
For some reason, Jadora wanted to object to that, but what did she know? Nothing. She barely knew Malek, and if Altrucia had been here for a decade, she had to be familiar with all the zidarr.
Jadora tore out the page with the translation, stuck it in her pocket, and put the book back on the shelf. “Let’s go.”
The drizzle dampened Tezi’s cheeks. She could have believed they were sailing across the ocean on a foggy night instead of through the clouds. The mageship’s exterior lamps had been turned off and all the hatches closed, so that light from the magical devices that powered the craft wouldn’t seep out. They had orders not to speak or make noise. “Running quiet,” Captain Toggs had called it.
The other ships in the allied fleet must have been doing the same, because Tezi didn’t see or hear sign of others in the clouds. Even so, she sensed they were getting close to their destination. Tension mingled with anticipation, hanging in the air like the mist. Though she couldn’t see them, Tezi was aware of Sergeant Tinder to one side of her and Lieutenant Sasko to the other. Occasionally, one of the mercenaries stirred, armor and weapons clanking faintly, but someone had mentioned that enemy ships could already be out here among them, and since then, everyone had been careful to obey Toggs’ call for silence.
A distant boom drifted to them. Thunder?
“That’s it,” Tinder whispered. “Our fleet has encountered the enemy. Too bad we’re in the rear.”
Not thunder. Explosives.
Tezi rested her hand on her rifle, her thumb tracing the dragons engraved in the silver plating above the trigger mechanism. She hoped the imagery didn’t have any religious connotations, since the teachings of Thanok said it was sacrilegious to believe any of the dragons of eld had been gods. Making idols in their likeness was forbidden. She was less certain about drawings—or images engraved in magelocks—but she did not want to upset Thanok, not on the eve of battle. Thorn Company might need his favor tonight.
“We’ll see plenty of action when we slip into their well-defended city,” Basher whispered from Tinder’s other side.
“I look forward to it,” Tinder said.
“You’re fondling your grenades, aren’t you?”
“Usually.”
“Cut the chitchat,” Sasko growled, and the group fell silent again.
A white flash from the same direction as the boom penetrated the clouds, eerie and strange in the mist. Tezi sank to her knees and rested the barrel of her rifle on the railing, nervous but ready to do her part.
Thorn Company’s orders were to hold tight when the enemy was spotted and let the mages start the action. They would encase the Dauntless in a protective barrier until it was time to drop it so the mercenaries could fire. Tezi trusted someone would let her know when to shoot, since she didn’t otherwise know how to tell if magic surrounded them or not.
A cloud darker than the rest caught her eye. Or was it a cloud? Could there be other ships out here running dark, trying not to be seen? And if so, was it one of their allies? Or one of their enemies? It seemed to be moving parallel to the Dauntless.
“Lieutenant,” Tezi whispered.
“I see it. Be right back.” Sasko jogged toward one of the mage crew.
An instant later, a boom rang out as orange light flashed from the dark cloud, revealing that it was a ship.
“We’re under attack!” a mage crewman yelled. “We’ve got a barrier up. Hold fire, hold fire.”
An orange fireball flew toward them, and Tezi ducked below the railing. It grew larger and larger, threatening to slam into the side of the ship. At the last second, it struck their invisible barrier and bounced off, dissipating.
“The barrier is down,” a calm voice said. “Mercenaries, return fire.”
Someone behind Tezi reacted more quickly than she, the blue blast of a magelock charge sailing away. It struck a barrier around the enemy ship instead of hitting a target.
“Fire the artillery weapons,” Sorath barked—that had been him shooting. He, the captain, and Sasko had the other special magelocks. “We’ve got to whittle down their shield, boys.”
“And girls,” Tinder corrected, leaning back to use her arm like an artillery weapon.
Tezi wouldn’t have thought they were close enough, but Tinder heaved one of her grenades toward the dark shape paralleling them. It arced through the clouds and blew up when it struck the barrier, never reaching the ship.
Tinder swore at the waste. The Dauntless’s big weapons opened up, pummeling the enemy with cannonballs and magical charges ten times the power of what magelocks could fire. Tezi fingered the trigger of her rifle but didn’t shoot, not able to tell if the attack was doing anything to whittle down their defense. She didn’t want to waste her charges on an impervious shield.
During a pause, the enemy ship lowered its barrier to return fire. Tezi sank lower as bolts of yellow and orange light streaked toward them.
“Barrier up!” one of their mages cried.
An order or a warning? Tezi couldn’t tell. Most of the projectiles exploded before reaching them, and she breathed a sigh of relief, but something that had been lobbed high and slow tumbled over their mages’ defenses and descended toward them. A grenade from a counterpart of Tinder’s on the other ship.
Tezi lunged to her feet and pointed her magelock in the air, trying to track the dark shape against the gray clouds. She fired at the same time as someone else—the captain. Their blasts struck simultaneously, and the grenade exploded dozens of feet above the ship.
“Take cover!” the captain yelled as shrapnel rained down on them.
It pinged off the deck and railing, and someone cried out in pain, but it could have been worse. The ship itself wasn’t damaged.
“Get a barrier up over us,” Captain Toggs yelled to his crew.
“This is foolish.” Sorath glanced toward the navigation cabin. “We’re in a three-dimensional environment, and we’re broadsiding each other like warships firing cannons on the sea.” He’d been speaking to Captain Ferroki, but he didn’t wait for an answer. He ran to the navigation cabin and disappeared inside.
“He’s not going to have any luck getting the mage crew to listen to him,” Sasko said.
“They will if they know what’s good for them.” Tinder had another grenade in hand, but both ships had their barriers up, so she didn’t throw it. “And us.”
“Mages never know what’s good for us.”
Tezi tried not to feel useless as the ships lowered their defenses only long enough to fire upon each other, then raised them immediately after, so they wouldn’t be vulnerable to the volleys. Weapons from both sides bounced off, with nothing getting through the shields. Tezi could now make out red-uniformed people on the deck of the other mageship, and might have tried to pick off an officer, but she worried about the ramifications of mistiming and hitting their own barrier.
“Be ready to fire,” Captain Ferroki said. “We might be weakening the mages maintaining their shields enough that they’ll be forced to drop them.”
“That happens, ma’am?” Tezi rested her magelock on the railing again, looking for an important target. She settled on one of their cannon operators.
“Mages eventually get tired when their shields are under attack. It takes effort to maintain them. These battles are often of attrition.”
Smoke from the black-powder weapons filled the air, and Tezi could no longer see the deck or even the other ship. So much for targeting an individual.
A faint vibration hummed through the deck. It took her a moment to realize the Dauntless was descending—the other ship remained on its straight-ahead route, at least for the moment. Their craft was descending and angling toward it.
“Won’t they just change their path?” Not only was it Tezi’s first major battle, but it was her first time on a mageship. She had no idea what the normal combat tactics were.
“Depends if they think this will give us an advantage or not.” The lieutenant shook her head. “I’d rather get above them and have the high ground than… whatever it is we’re doing.”
The Dauntless’s mages lowered their defenses, and the crew fired off the largest volley of weapons yet. Cannons and magical charges boomed and flashed, filling the air with the stink of black powder. Tezi still couldn’t see what they were firing at. Maybe that was the point. Would the crew of the other ship fail to see them sliding underneath them? Would that tactic work against mages? Maybe if the mages were busy shoring up their defenses, they would be distracted for a moment.
“What can we do from below?” Tezi asked.
“I’ve got ideas.” Tinder hefted her grenade.
“Won’t their defenses wrap all the way around their ship?”
More flashes appeared in the air above the Dauntless, and projectiles streaked away into the clouds. The enemy ship hadn’t adjusted where it was firing yet.
Through the smoke and the clouds, its black hull grew visible above and slightly behind them. Tezi aimed her rifle toward it but hesitated. Would firing at the hull do anything? Even without magic, it ought to be sturdy.
“Adjust your aim, gunners,” Captain Ferroki said quietly. “Our mages should unload all they’ve got to try to burrow an opening in their defenses.”
She’d no sooner finished the words than the ship’s magical guns fired. The first charges struck a barrier under the hull and did nothing.
A shout reached their ears from the enemy ship: “They’re under us. Adjust targets!”
“We can’t shoot them through our ship,” someone else up there yelled. “We’ve got to move. Move!”
“Keep firing,” Sorath ordered, patting a mage at one of the cannons. “We’re wearing them down.”
False optimism or truth? Tezi didn’t know how he could tell. Their projectiles kept bouncing uselessly off the invisible barrier or exploding against it, too far from the enemy ship to do any damage.
But mere seconds later, that changed. A fiery orange ball cast from a mage’s hands made it through the air where the barrier had been. It slammed into the hull of the enemy ship. More weapons fired, magical charges smashing through the hull and exploding inside.
Tezi shot once, not sure her smaller magelock would do anything. The blast put a dent in the hull. It didn’t do much. Fortunately, the Dauntless’s more powerful weapons continued to punch through the hull and blast into the interior of the ship.
The enemy craft veered to the left and rose in elevation, trying to get away from them.
“Stay with them,” Sorath ordered through the hatchway to the navigation officer.
A fireball shot off the deck of the ship above and curved, arching through the mist toward them. It was the first one to do so, and the defenders weren’t prepared to raise a barrier again. It slammed into the side of the Dauntless, tearing through the hull. The jolt knocked Tezi into the railing.
She grimaced, imagining an enemy attack blowing up the magical engine that powered the craft. What would happen then? Would they fall out of the sky and plummet to their deaths thousands of feet below?
“Raise shields to the sides,” Captain Toggs yelled. “Keep it open above.”
“Can they do that?” Tezi pushed back to her feet.
“I think so,” Tinder said. “I’ve heard that creating a bubble all around something is harder than a simple flat shield.”
More fireballs curved down toward them, and Tezi braced herself. One streaked straight toward the top of the ship—toward her and the other mercenaries. Several swore and flattened themselves to the deck. Tezi crouched down beside Tinder.
But the fireballs blasted against a renewed shield a dozen feet from the ship. Feeling sheepish, Tezi rose up again.
“All fire on the engine compartment.” Sorath pointed upward toward a specific spot on the enemy ship’s hull.
“And Uthari’s people,” Ferroki added.
Their hull had been torn open in numerous places, huge gaps revealing the innards of the craft, including the glowing magical artifact that powered it. But snipers had run down to their engine compartment, crouching next to the holes in the hull, raising weapons to fire upon Tezi and the others. There was no barrier above the Dauntless, no magical protection from that direction.
As blasts and bullets pounded their deck, Tezi darted behind the corner of the navigation cabin. Scant feet away, someone screamed as they were hit.
Tezi leaned out and fired at Uthari’s red-uniformed defenders. The Dauntless’s mages focused on the magical engine itself, hoping to blow it up as the other vessel zigzagged its course, trying to get away from them. But the big mageships did not move quickly, and as soon as they changed course, the Dauntless followed. A defiant whoop came from the navigation cabin as Captain Toggs’ helmsman successfully stuck with them. He sounded young.
Tezi spotted an enemy soldier aiming for Captain Ferroki and fired before he could. Her charge struck him in the chest, and he tumbled out through one of the holes in the hull. He fell past the bow of the Dauntless, screaming as he disappeared below.
Though chilled, Tezi made herself fire again. If they didn’t survive this battle, or if their ship was incapacitated, their part in the war would be over before it started.
She tried not to focus on the mercenary—Corporal Jinx—lying unmoving on the deck five feet away, blood pooling under her body. This was what she had signed up for. She couldn’t expect anything but horror and death—maybe her own.
“I’m out of charges,” someone barked.
“Me too,” someone else responded. “No time to recharge. Here.”
One of Tinder’s grenades sailed toward the enemy’s vulnerable engine compartment. Tezi didn’t have many charges left either and tried to make them count.
Sorath appeared, his arms full of the glowing red mushroom explosives. He thrust a few at Captain Ferroki, then started hurling them himself. They struck the hull and blew. One landed squarely on the pulsing engine.
With a flash of white light, an explosion ripped from the bottom of the enemy ship, blowing huge chunks of the hull in all directions. A piece the size of a house slammed into the deck, almost taking out two more mercenaries. Smoke filled the air again, stealing Tezi’s ability to find targets. But it didn’t matter. With its engine destroyed and no magic remaining to keep it aloft, the enemy ship gave way to gravity and plummeted downward so fast the breeze stirred Tezi’s hair.
A ragged cheer went up from the mercenaries and the mage crewmen. The captain and the doctor rushed to the downed corporal, but Fret soon shook her head. They’d lost her.
Tezi leaned her forehead against the cabin, worried that Jinx wouldn’t be the last.
Chapter 24
24
As Jadora and Jak trailed Altrucia across the library, the sounds of swords striking beyond the double doors faded, and silence fell. If the zidarr sparring session was over, they might not have much time. Altrucia must have had similar thoughts because she sent nervous glances toward the exit and broke into a run to lead them under one of the mezzanines.
Jadora told herself that they weren’t yet doing anything condemning, so she didn’t need to be scared, but she also propelled her legs more quickly, her vials clinking in her pocket. The tiny noises echoed like peals of thunder in the cavernous library. She flattened her hand against the pocket to keep them quiet.
They stopped before reaching the back wall, and Altrucia tugged at a shallow bookcase that stood ajar. She must have come in that way to avoid being seen by the zidarr.
Jak let out a soft, “Hah!” at this confirmation of secret passages.
After a last glance toward the library entrance, Altrucia slid behind the bookcase and onto a small landing less than two feet by two feet. The nook had been built between two bookcases that were shallower than those around them. She had to step carefully to avoid falling into a square hole in the floor, the rungs of a metal ladder just visible, thanks to the lamps lit in the library.
“Follow.” Altrucia didn’t hesitate to start down the rungs, but she paused and removed her headband. “Take no magic with you or the zidarr will be able to track us.” She slid it out, leaving it on the floor, and waved again for them to follow.
Jadora frowned at Jak, worried he was magical enough that Malek would be able to track him. All they could hope was that they could get far enough away that tracking like that wouldn’t be possible.
Jak must have thought the headband on the floor would be an obvious clue, for he picked it up, ran it back up the aisle, and stuck it between some books.
As soon as Altrucia had descended far enough, Jadora climbed down after her. It was so dark that she had no idea how far they were dropping, and she worried she would step on their leader’s hand. But Altrucia must have been as eager to escape as they, for when she called up, “Last person, close the bookcase,” her voice came from well below Jadora.
“Got it,” Jak replied.
A faint grinding sound came from above, and the vestiges of light from the library disappeared.
Jadora placed her hands and feet carefully, having no idea how far she might fall if she slipped. Logically, she knew the platform that supported the city couldn’t be that deep, but her mind conjured images of plummeting into an abyss for a few eons before landing hard enough to die instantly.
Jak’s boots rang softly on the rungs—they sounded alarmingly close to her fingers.
“Don’t step on me, please,” Jadora said. “I’m taking my time.”
“Enjoying the scenery?”
“Something like that.”
Soft rasps came from below, followed by the appearance of a tiny orange flame.
“There are mage lamps,” Altrucia said, “but I fear using their tools will lead them to us. I brought torches.”
“Torches are fine.” Jadora’s foot came down on something with a broader base than the rungs, though it didn’t sound like a solid floor. “We appreciate your help.”
Altrucia lit a second torch from the first, the faint stink of kerosene filling the still, dark air, and handed it to Jadora. She bent to shed light on the floor. It was a grate with normal-looking pipes under it and un-normal-looking tendrils with a faint green glow to them. They didn’t emit enough light to see by, so Jadora was glad for the torches. And a guide. They’d come down in a dead-end, but she wagered there was a maze of tunnels down here.
“This way.” Altrucia headed down the tunnel.
As they hurried away from the ladder, Jadora lamented that they couldn’t take the portal with them. Leaving it in Uthari’s hands felt like such a failing. But if there was a chance they could reunite with Thorn Company and get the key—and take it far from here—maybe that would be enough for now.
Their long narrow tunnel was almost painfully straight, and Jadora was glad. The more steps they put between themselves and the castle the better.
Her light played over something fuzzy, damp, and gray on the wall, and she paused. Mold would have been her first guess, but tiny sprouts came from the variegated lump. Not a fungi then. But what plant could grow down in this dark tunnel with no notable substrate on the hard walls?
Jadora brushed her finger over it. Even the texture was strange. Was it some blending of magical and natural? Or a species endemic to the sky city?
She fished in her pockets for an empty vial and her small spatula sampler.
“Mother,” Jak whispered from behind her. “Don’t tell me you’re pausing in the middle of our escape from megalomaniacal mages to take a sample of something growing on the wall.”
“I wasn’t going to tell you. Hold this.” She thrust the torch at him, scraped a few spongy blobs off the wall, making sure to get the sprouts, and slid them into the vial and corked it.
“Other people’s mothers aren’t like this.”
“Their home lives must be stultifying.” Jadora put her vial away in a different pocket from the others, grabbed the torch, and said, “Thank you,” as she hurried after their leader. “If you want to draw a map later, I’ll hold your torch for you.”
“That’s fair.” Jak glanced back.
She lowered her voice. “You don’t hear anyone following us, do you?”
“I hope not.”
The answer did not reassure her.
“I heard a clank a little while ago,” Jak admitted, “but it might have been whatever machinery operates down here.”
Or it might have been someone opening that hidden bookcase access?
Grimacing, Jadora caught up with Altrucia and wished she would go faster. If Malek had figured out where they’d gone, he could sprint through these tunnels and catch up with them quickly.
Could zidarr see in the dark? She wouldn’t be surprised. Would he be annoyed with them for trying to escape? Or dryly amused? So far, he’d trended toward the latter, but if he had to chase them through tunnels for miles and got in trouble with his master for letting them out, Malek might feel differently this time.
A hint of light came from up ahead, and Jadora slowed down.
“Is that something magical?” she whispered.
It wasn’t the same yellow as Altrucia’s torch—not natural flame. The glow was orange this time.
“Yes,” Altrucia said. “But it is nothing to be alarmed about. It is… the sewage treatment box.”
“Just what I was hoping to see on my trip to a sky city,” Jak muttered.
Altrucia’s pause made Jadora uneasy. Their guide wouldn’t have a reason to lie to them, would she?
She looked back at Jak, the flames of her torch throwing his face in shadow, and she belatedly wondered if they’d made a mistake. Her feet slowed. The light was coming from around a corner up ahead, so she couldn’t yet see the source, but it was growing brighter. Nothing in this tunnel so far hinted—or suggested via smell—that they were in a sewer channel.
Altrucia noticed that they’d fallen back and waved. “Hurry. Do not slow now. The way to the surface is just up ahead.”
“Problem?” Jak murmured.
“I’m not sure,” Jadora murmured back.
They passed something else on the wall, not plant matter. It was the remains of a broken fist-sized dome that had been mounted there. The shards had fallen through the grating, and a few pieces were visible on the pipe and green glowing tendril they’d been following.
The air buzzed as Jadora stepped past the broken dome, but whatever it was didn’t hurt her. As soon as she took another step, the sensation went away. Had that been a more formidable barrier before the dome—the device that operated it?—had been broken?
Altrucia stepped over a large dark lump on the grating and stopped in a four-way intersection. Whatever was responsible for the orange glow was off to her right side. It painted her face in warm light and didn’t appear to alarm her.
Jadora had almost convinced herself it truly was a sewer box or other piece of infrastructure when the light moved, shifting the shadows on the wall. And on the grating. Jadora halted. The large lump Altrucia had stepped over was a man wearing the red uniform of Uthari’s militia. It had been a man. His throat was slit.
There was no way Altrucia had done that.
Jadora halted. “Who—”
An invisible force pushed her from behind. She whirled, trying to lunge away, but Jak smashed into her. The force was pushing him too.
“Can’t fight it,” he snarled in frustration as he kept stumbling forward, bumping her along ahead of him.
Jadora thought about screaming—or threatening to scream—but to whom would she cry?
“Well done, Altrucia,” a male voice rumbled.
A man in green clothing stepped out of the side tunnel as the wall of power forced Jadora and Jak into the intersection. Altrucia backed up and avoided her eyes when Jadora shot an accusing glare at her.
The man in green wasn’t carrying a light—whatever was making that glow came from farther down the tunnel behind him. It provided enough illumination to see him nod at Altrucia. His long hair was back in a ponytail, and he lacked a military mien, nor were his green tunic and trousers a uniform, but that shade was reminiscent of the uniforms Queen Vorsha’s people wore. Two magelock pistols hung in holsters on his hips.
Jadora couldn’t tell if the man was a zidarr, but she hoped not. Malek and the other zidarr she’d seen didn’t bother with projectile weapons—why would they when they could fling their power around like bullets? Maybe if this was a mage of middling power, she and Jak had a chance of overpowering him.
“I wish you could have brought the artifact as well,” he continued, “but I suppose it would not have fit down a ladder.”
“No, my lord.” Altrucia kept her gaze downcast.
The man stepped forward and rested a hand on the side of her head. Whatever he did caused her face to relax and the tension to ebb from her body. “You have done well. As promised, a place on a barge called the Field Drifter awaits you in the harbor.” He pressed a glowing fob into her hand. “This will direct you to the right berth. Tell the captain the sun sets on the castle, and he will let you aboard. He loathes Uthari and is loyal to my master.”
Jadora found she couldn’t step forward or back but that her arms weren’t immobilized. She slid her hand into her pocket, fingers wrapping around a vial of the mild acid she’d made earlier.
“Yes, my lord. Thank you.” Altrucia bobbed her head.
As the man stepped back, still focused on Altrucia, Jadora uncorked her vial and threw it at the side of his head. He whirled and caught it, but without a lid, some of the liquid spattered his hand and face.
He snarled and lunged for Jadora, his fingers snapping in the air. He was several feet away, but it was as if they snapped around her neck—and squeezed.
Altrucia might have helped, but she fled in the direction the mage had indicated, and she didn’t look back. Wheezing for breath, Jadora couldn’t help but feel betrayed. If terrene humans couldn’t stick together, how would they ever change the world?
Jak rushed past Jadora. She wanted to stop him—to protect him—but the invisible fingers tightening around her neck stole her breath and kept her from moving.
Their grip released as Jak plowed into the mage, surprising him. They tumbled to the grating together. Jak tried to snatch free one of the holstered pistols, but the mage knocked him back, half with power, half with a punch. The weapon clattered off the wall and bounced onto the grating.
The mage snarled and rose to his feet. Jak sprang up at the same time. The weapon had landed closer to Jadora than to either of them, and she crept forward, hoping Jak’s body blocked the mage’s view. She picked up the pistol.
Jak crouched to spring at the mage again, but a blast of energy knocked him backward. Jadora ducked low a heartbeat before he would have crashed into her. Instead, he sailed over her. From her belly, she found the trigger and fired at the mage.
He hadn’t yet recovered from his attack on Jak, and the charge blasted him full in the chest. Shock and pain flashed in his eyes as he staggered back, gaping at her. Jadora fired again and again, terrified he would recover and kill both of them.
Only when Jak rested a hand on her shoulder did she stop. “Not that I don’t support shooting people who are tormenting us, but I think we’ll need the rest of the charges in that magelock to get out of here.”
Their enemy lay on his back on the grating, holes blown in his chest. No magic would cause him to rise again.
Jadora’s hands shook—no, her whole body shook—and she dropped the weapon, barely noticing as it clattered onto the grate. She sank to her knees, numbly aware of the hard bite of the metal through her trousers.
She was a scholar, not a murderer. How had she ended up in this situation? She hated this place and all these people. The idea that she might never be able to return home to her normal life filled her with almost as much distress as the mage’s death.
Jak picked up their torches, the pistol, then went to the body to pull the second firearm out of the holster. He returned to her side and patted her shoulder. “Do you want one?”
Still numb, Jadora shook her head slowly. She wanted to escape, but she didn’t want to kill anybody else. He handed her one of the torches. They were lucky they hadn’t gone out.
Jak spun, as if he’d heard something, and peered back down the tunnel they’d originally come from. He wrapped his arms around her and helped her to stand.
Afraid Malek was on their trail, Jadora locked her knees and forced her legs to support her weight.
“To the harbor?” Jak whispered, pointing one of the magelocks in the direction Altrucia had gone.
“For all we know, that leads to an incinerator, and she’s running into her fiery death.”
“I’ve studied infrastructure maps. It’s rare for incinerators to be included among the pipes that provide power, water, and sewage treatment for cities.”
Jadora hoped there was an incinerator somewhere for the sewage, and that it wasn’t simply dumped out of the bottom of the city onto the land below, but this wasn’t the time to wonder about it. She waved for Jak to lead the way.
They walked softly, trying to keep their shoes from making noise on the grating. The glow grew brighter, and faint thunks came from an alcove that opened to one side of the tunnel. Magical machinery several feet tall and wide occupied the space, with an orange orb in the center, feeding power into green tendrils as well as a pumping system. Several types of pipes and conduits ran up through the ceiling, as well as into the wall at the back of the alcove, and down under the grating and into the tunnel.
Altrucia had continued past, and Jak started doing the same, but his head jerked around again. He peered back toward the intersection, then pointed into the alcove.
Jadora opened her mouth to question him, but he held up a finger and shook his head. He darted behind the machinery, the tangle of magical and mundane equipment large enough to provide a hiding spot, and waved for her to join him.
Though Jadora would rather run than risk being caught back there, Jak seemed certain that someone was coming. They ground out their torches on the grating, the magical machinery providing enough of a glow to see by. They had weapons now, so maybe they could defend themselves if they needed to. In the alcove, at least they could put their backs to a wall. Not that such tactics mattered much against mages.
She squeezed behind the machinery with him. There was barely room between it and the wall, and a lever thrusting out mashed her in the breast. Maybe women weren’t meant to go on adventures such as these. Her elbow brushed against a glowing piece of metal as hot as a branding iron, and she jerked it back, clunking it against the wall and barely avoiding cursing. Maybe nobody was meant to go on adventures such as these.
Jak found a spot where he could peer through a small gap. Jadora let him have the watch duty and shifted, trying to make herself less uncomfortable. A pipe dug into her hip, reverberating with magical energy or whatever it was that flowed from the station out into the rest of the city.
Long seconds ticked past, the machinery drowning out any other noise, and she was tempted to ask him what he’d heard. She hadn’t heard anything, but it was possible some other sense—this magical sense that he was learning about—was guiding him. She didn’t know what to think about that but continued to fear it would get him in trouble with the zidarr. The thought of losing him almost brought tears to her eyes.
Maybe she sniffed, for Jak held his finger to his lips again, then pointed through the peephole between two pipes. She leaned over in time to see someone walk into view of the alcove from the direction of the intersection. Someone in simple clothes and a brown jacket. Malek. The orange glow highlighted the hard angles of his face. He looked pissed.
Certain he would sense them watching him, Jadora wanted to pull back and close her eyes, but she didn’t dare move. He looked toward their hiding spot. Since they were behind the glowing light, it should be hard for him to make them out in the shadows, but she doubted he used only his eyes to track people.
He squinted toward the machinery and took a step into the alcove, and she was sure they were about to be dragged back to the castle by their collars. Then the grating shook. Everything shook. Memories of earthquakes she’d experienced sprang to mind. It was over in seconds, but it left her shaken. Jak’s eyes were wide, but he hadn’t budged. He wasn’t moving, maybe not even breathing, as if afraid to draw Malek’s attention.
She understood that, but Malek was looking toward the ceiling now. Using his magic to sense what was above it? Or above the city?
A woman’s scream came from the tunnel, from the direction Altrucia had gone. Malek’s head swiveled toward it, and he ran off.
Jadora sagged, exhaling the breath she hadn’t realized she’d been holding. Her head thunked against the pump housing.
The grating shook again.
“What’s going on?” she murmured, though she feared she already knew.
“I think the war has started,” Jak said. “The city is under attack.”
Chapter 25
25
Jak stood up and crept out from behind the pump machinery. At least fifteen minutes had passed since the last quake rocked the tunnels. It had been even longer since Malek ran off to check on Altrucia’s scream. Jak also hadn’t heard anymore explosions or cries of pain. Hopefully, that meant the defensive shields were now in place and further attacks wouldn’t reach the great floating structure.
But if the city wasn’t in danger now, where had Malek gone? Jak had assumed he would, once he realized Altrucia wasn’t Mother, come back the same way. He might have been called back to the castle to defend it. Or he might be in the tunnels searching for Jak and his mother.
“Hope not,” he muttered.
“Let’s try to get to the harbor.” His mother stood, shaking out her legs. “The attack and the diversion it’s creating may be our best chance to escape.”
“I’m worried we’ll run straight into Malek if we go the way he went. Should we go back to the intersection and pick a different direction?”
“And end up lost down here for hours?” She surprised him by relighting their torches by touching them to a glowing piece of metal on the back of the pumping machinery.
“I have an excellent sense of direction. I don’t get lost.”
“If not lost, then unable to get out. We haven’t passed any other ladders or ways up. If that mage was telling the truth, there’s at least one ship waiting in the harbor. It’s that way, right?” She pointed down the tunnel in the direction Malek had gone.
Jak considered the route they’d taken since the library. “More or less.”
“That may be our only option anyway. Remember that broken dome on the wall of our tunnel at the four-way intersection? There were domes in the two tunnels that we didn’t take that weren’t broken. I think they may create barriers that you can’t pass unless you know how to unlock them. Or break them.”
Jak had forgotten about it but nodded at the reminder.
“All right.” He took one of the torches and peeked both ways before stepping out of the alcove. “But if we run into Malek, you get to take the brunt of his wrath while I cower behind you.”
“Your bravery warms my heart.”
“I think he likes you more than me.” Jak jogged off down the tunnel.
“I don’t know about that. He’s keeping other mages from annihilating you for being cheeky and magically gifted.”
“It’s just been one other mage—that zidarr.”
“And maybe Uthari. He went off to report to him, remember.”
“Maybe they had more interesting things to discuss than me.” The tunnel curved, making Jak doubt that it would truly take them to the harbor.
A boom came from somewhere above them, but the ground didn’t shake. There was some proof that the defenses were in place. Good. After Jak and Mother escaped, the invasion fleet could destroy the place. Not before.
Another intersection lay ahead, and he raised a hand as he slowed down. A body was crumpled in it, face-down with arms and legs sprawled out. The clothing was familiar. Altrucia.
Jak crept forward to see if it was possible she’d only been knocked out. It occurred to him that she might have been left as bait to draw them out. He gripped one pistol tightly, the other jammed in his waistband until his mother wanted it. If she ever did. She’d seemed shaken after killing that mage. Understandable, but Jak would have done the same thing to protect her.
He missed seeing a shard of glass on the grating and kicked it with his boot. It clacked against the wall before tumbling between the bars and shattering against the pipes running next to the glowing tendril. The body didn’t stir, but Jak froze, worried Malek was lying in wait around the corner.
“Another broken dome,” Mother whispered, pointing past his shoulder to the wall.
Queen Vorsha’s mage must have originally come this way, destroying those devices—and knocking out the barriers—as he went. Jak eased toward the intersection and peered around the corners. Nobody was waiting to pounce. To the right, another broken dome on the wall suggested the mage had come from that direction. It was the way most likely to lead to the harbor. A good thing, because more domes were mounted to the tunnel walls ahead and to the left. They hadn’t been broken. He thought he sensed a buzz of magic from both directions, either from the working domes or from barriers blocking the way.
“Check her, please,” Mother said from behind him.
Jak didn’t think Altrucia was alive, but he knelt down to roll her over. He braced himself in anticipation of her neck having been slit by one of Malek’s blades, but she’d screamed before Malek had gotten to her. Her face was charred beyond recognition, her skin burned off and the muscle beneath blackened to a crisp. He jerked his hand away, letting the head fall back. His stomach churned. That was worse than a slit throat.
“Did you see?” he rasped without looking back.
“Yes,” Mother said grimly. “She either ran into another mage or…” She looked toward the tunnel straight ahead, the dome glowing softly.
Jak stuck a hand in his pocket, looking for something he didn’t need. He found a pencil that had been sharpened down so far that it didn’t have much use left and tossed it down the tunnel.
A little burst of light flashed as it struck an invisible barrier, then tumbled through the grate to land on the tendril. As blackened as Altrucia’s face, it wafted smoke upward.
“We’re not going that way,” he said.
“She must have been running full out and didn’t realize she had to turn.” Mother pointed to the right.
“Yeah.” Even though Jak believed the barrier was down in that direction, he poked the air with his pistol before committing to walking through. Nothing happened.
“Wait.” Mother held up a hand and crouched by the body. She grimaced as she patted Altrucia’s pockets.
“I doubt she has any extra vials you can commandeer.”
She gave him the flat look the comment deserved, then drew something out. The glowing fob the mage had given Altrucia.
“Maybe it can guide us to the ship he mentioned—and the captain who doesn’t like Uthari. Such a person might be convinced to give us a ride out of here.”
“Didn’t the mage say its captain was loyal to his master?”
“Yes. But it could be an option. We can’t grow wings and fly out of this place on our own.”
“Right.”
As they continued onward, Jak worried about coming to a dead-end or a barrier they couldn’t get through.
“We’ve gone far enough that we should be close to the city wall by now,” he said after they’d passed through a couple more intersections, the broken domes leading the way—and unbroken domes ensuring they didn’t deviate.
“I hope you’re right and that we can get out.”
Light ahead made him slow down again. Some daylight trickling through? Was it still daylight? They’d spent a long time at the library and in the tunnels.
It was another alcove, the machinery inside similar to the setup in the first, steady hiss-thumps emanating from it.
A boom thundered somewhere above—closer than the last one had been—and Mother eyed the ceiling warily. By unspoken agreement, they hurried past the alcove. Sooner or later, they had to come to a way out of here.
“There.” Jak pointed toward a dead-end with metal rungs fastened to the wall. They led up into a vertical shaft.
He rushed forward, glancing up to make sure the way was clear as he grabbed one of the rungs. But he halted, then swore.
Ten feet up, a promising hatch appeared to lead out of the tunnels, but halfway up the shaft, one of the domes was mounted to the wall. This one wasn’t broken. It glowed an ominous orange, and he sensed a tiny buzz of power stretching across the shaft.
“Either the mage didn’t truly want her to escape,” Mother said, peering up, “or he didn’t come in this way and didn’t realize there was one at the exit.”
“Or…” Jak handed her his torch and climbed a few rungs so he could look more closely at the dome. The glow from within made it hard to tell, but he picked out cracks in the glass. Sealed cracks. It looked like the dome had been broken and the pieces fused back together. “Malek fixed it on his way out.”
“Ensuring we were trapped down here?”
“Probably. Maybe he got called off to do something and wanted to make sure we couldn’t wander off before he came back to find us.”
“Come back down here, get behind cover as much as you can, and try shooting it.” Mother waved to his pistol as she backed up. “He wouldn’t have expected us to have magical weapons.”
“Good idea. That might work.” Jak dropped back to the ground.
The blast from a magelock ought to be as powerful as whatever energy the mage had personally channeled into the domes, right?
There wasn’t anything to hide behind, but he backed under the ceiling of the tunnel as much as possible for protection, then leaned out to make the shot.
“Careful.” Mother set his torch down on the grating and kept hers, though there was enough light from the glowing dome that they didn’t need them. “If it doesn’t break, the charge will ricochet back toward us.”
“I know.”
“That might happen even if it does break.”
“I know that too.”
“Good. You’re my only child. I’d prefer you live.”
“I assumed that, but it’s nice to have verification. Can I make the shot now?”
“Yes.” Mother gripped the back of Jak’s belt, as if she planned to yank him to safety if there was trouble.
Maybe she’d seen mage artifacts blow up before. He hoped this one was weaker than usual since it had been broken and repaired.
Jak aimed, thought a quick prayer to Shylezar, and fired.
His shot hit the dome squarely and ricocheted off. It bounced to the opposite side of the shaft, then to another side, and another. Mother tugged Jak back even as he scrambled out of the way. The charge bounced off another side of the shaft and zipped into their tunnel.
They dropped to the grating as it whizzed past, scant inches above their heads, and disappeared around the last bend. Only when the sound of it bouncing off walls faded did Jak dare lift his head.
“Note to self: firing magelocks indoors isn’t a good idea.”
“Especially in tunnels.” Mother let go of him and sat up with a sigh.
She’d dropped her torch, and it had gone out. Jak’s still burned where she’d set it on the grating.
Jak rose and checked on the dome, hoping the shot had knocked it out of commission. The sides of the tunnel were chipped and blackened where his charge had struck, but the orange dome continued to glow cheerfully. The buzz of the barrier remained.
“That bastard must have reinforced it,” he grumbled.
“That’s possible.”
“We can’t get out of here if we can’t break it.” Jak thought back to the various intersections they’d passed through, trying to remember if any other tunnels hadn’t been guarded by domes and barriers, but the only route open was back to the library.
“Wait.” Mother held up a finger. “I have an idea.”
She trotted back down the tunnel. Puzzled, Jak wondered if she truly wanted him to wait or come with her. He had their only weapons—unless she had more vials of acid to fling at people.
He took a few steps after her, but she turned into the last alcove they’d passed. A faint ker-clunk came from the machinery, and the hiss-thumps faded, as did the dim light in the tunnel. The glowing tendril under the grating went dark. Only their single torch burned on the grating by the shaft.
Barely visible in the gloom, Mother stepped out from the alcove. “I pulled the lever in the back. I’m hoping that turned off the flow of magic to the domes as well as this section of the city. And that an alarm doesn’t ding to summon dozens of maintenance mages responsible for keeping the city’s plumbing working.”
“I doubt anyone is worried about running water while the city is under siege.” Jak patted his way back to the shaft.
“If their fancy water closets stop working, they may worry. Biological functions can’t be set aside just because it’s a time of war.”
“Funny, Mother.” Jak leaned into the shaft, and his heart lightened. The dome was dark, and the barrier was gone. He spun and hugged her. “It worked. I can’t believe Malek didn’t think of that.”
“I doubt zidarr spend a lot of time in the bowels of the city contemplating how the infrastructure works. I wouldn’t have thought of it if my chest hadn’t come to grief on the lever at the other machine.”
“Let’s see where we come up.” If Jak’s sense of direction wasn’t lying to him, they ought to be next to the harbor. He hoped there really was a barge waiting that they could cadge a ride on.
Though he believed the barrier down, he proceeded cautiously and poked at the air overhead with the tip of his pistol. It didn’t encounter anything, and he didn’t get zapped. He stuck his tongue out at the dome as he passed it.
When Jak pushed up on the handle on the hatch, it didn’t budge, and he worried that his triumph had been premature. But it twisted, letting him spin it a couple of times, so he could ease the hatch open.
It was dark outside, and fog further muted the view, but thanks to light from lampposts, he could see damp pavement and grass beyond. Hope roared through him. For the first time, their escape seemed plausible.
“Don’t get ahead of yourself,” Jak muttered, carefully raising the hatch a couple more inches, so he could see around the area.
The booms were much louder now, and the shouted orders of soldiers came from somewhere above them. Jak worried he’d come up right under the city wall, with the hatch in plain view of men and women up there defending their homes.
He spotted the docks and the grassy lawn to either side of them. What he didn’t spot were any ships.
He swore under his breath. “Where did they all go?”
When they’d arrived, there had been dozens of, if not more than a hundred, vessels of all types. Some had been military mageships and had doubtless been ordered into the skies to defend the city, but what about all the transports, barges, and personal yachts and schooners?
“Jak?” Mother hung on the ladder below his feet.
“There aren’t any ships.”
“None?”
A mageship sailed past the end of the docks, a dark shape against clouds that were hugging the city, making it feel like a dense fog had them in its grip. Jak had no idea if it was natural or had been magically created by Uthari’s enemies, but it made it so he could barely see the people manning the weapons on the deck of the mageship. He hoped it also made it hard for the soldiers on the wall above to notice that this hatch was up a few inches.
“All the nonmilitary vessels must have been told to beat it at the first sign of trouble.” Jak could see why, since the harbor was outside of the walls—and possibly outside of the city’s protective shield—and more vulnerable. “And all of the military vessels must be out fighting. There’s nothing for us to stow away on.”
Mother slumped, her arm hooked over a rung. “I needn’t have memorized the pass phrase the mage gave to Altrucia.”
More shouts came from overhead, from a watchtower on the wall. With everything going on, the soldiers inside would be paying close attention to everything around them. That meant sneaking to the city gate was out. Not that it was likely to be open in the middle of a siege anyway.
Jak and his mother were stuck.
“We’re going to have to come up with another plan,” he said.
“I’m not sure if there’s anything we can do but wait and hope.”
“Yeah.” Jak tried not to think about the fact that Malek knew exactly where they were and would, sooner or later, return to get them.
Sorath was pacing the deck of the Dauntless as they flew close enough to see one end of the floating city of Utharika, a fifty-foot-high wall hiding all but its tallest buildings from sight. Watchtowers and weapons dotted that wall, the city gates were closed, and the extensive dock system that poked out from a peninsula was devoid of ships.
All of Uthari’s mageships were in the air, flying in front of, above, and to the sides of the city. A few of the allied craft were harrying them, hurling magical and mundane projectiles at the city, then flying off, trying to lure the defenders out into the clouds.
The explosives blew before getting close to the structures, thanks to shields protecting the city. Sorath’s experience told him they were created by powerful artifacts and would be much more difficult to wear down than those conjured by individual mages.
He leaned through the hatchway of the navigation cabin and ordered the young helmsman to halt the Dauntless while they assessed the scenario. The cloud cover remained dense, with drizzle further reducing visibility. It had been a boon for the attackers who’d managed to get close without being seen, but it didn’t look like that advantage had helped much. The city had clearly been ready for the invasion force. At least the clouds made it difficult for the artillerymen on the walls to target the allied fleet.
That didn’t keep them from trying. Booms thundered from all corners of the city. The clouds muted the noise somewhat, making the danger seem farther away than it was, but Sorath had no delusions. Even here, they could be in danger as the weapons on the walls launched projectiles more than a mile.
Ferroki came up to his side, her rifle in hand. “Any thoughts on how we’re going to slip in without being noticed?”
“I’m working on it.”
“I foresee a formidable task.”
“That’s a tactful way of saying we’re screwed,” her lieutenant said, walking up to join them.
“You know I’m famous for my tact,” Ferroki said.
“We always knew this would be difficult.” Sorath never would have accepted this mission if he hadn’t been forced into it. He had no doubt that if he hadn’t said yes, Stone Heart would have killed him. “We’ll have to be crafty.”
“You’ll have to be crafty,” Lieutenant Sasko said. “We’re just here to be the muscle.”
“Your people are mouthy,” Sorath told Ferroki.
“You’ve observed something similar before.”
“It must be true then.”
Knowing they couldn’t loiter out here forever without being noticed—and fired upon—Sorath turned away from them and gripped his chin to consider their options. They had to get the ship close enough for him and his party to sneak in and find that portal, but to get inside the walls, they would have to find a way to breach the shields.
He leaned through the hatchway again. The helmsman, a young mage in his twenties who kept complaining about how much slower mageships were than the snow chargers he’d grown up racing, was looking in his direction expectantly. His own commander was out overseeing repairs of the giant hole that had been blown in the side of the Dauntless. Fortunately, the fireball that had hit them hadn’t struck any of the ship’s magical components and didn’t affect navigation or propulsion.
“Don’t take us any closer, killer,” Sorath said, “but drop us down a couple hundred yards, so we can look at the bottom of the city.”
“Will do, Colonel.” The helmsman saluted even though mages usually scoffed at the rank structures of terrene military units.
Sorath had already decided he liked the kid.
“They’ll have defenses down there,” Ferroki said.
“True, but I’ve gotten in through the bottom of a city before. Granted, it was one of King Jayzar’s colonies and not a kingdom capital, and they didn’t have their shields up, but we were able to knock out the weapons in the middle of the night. We cut our way into the platform, crawled through the infrastructure, and made it to the royal residence to rescue a kidnapped princess. This isn’t my first infiltration.”
Of course last time, he’d had the element of surprise, something these idiots had given up as soon as they’d started attacking Uthari’s farm barges. For that matter, as soon as they’d attacked Malek’s mageship and failed to get the portal that first night. If they’d asked Sorath for advice, he would have told them to wait a few months—or at least weeks—to try a sneak attack.
As the Dauntless descended below the city, the relatively flat bottom of the platform coming into view, Sorath groaned. Not only were there copious large weapons mounted around the rim and on an inverted pylon at the center; there were no fewer than five massive mageships lying in wait under the city’s shadow. The mist kept Sorath from seeing all the way to the far side. There could have been more.
“And during this previous infiltration of yours,” Lieutenant Sasko said, “was there a fleet of warships waiting to pummel you mercilessly with huge mage weapons?”
“No, that didn’t come until we were fleeing from the infiltration.”
Two of the ships opened fire on them.
“Barriers up!” mages in the forecastle shouted.
Fireballs and cannonballs sped toward them, blazing orange through the night sky, and slammed into their defenses.
“Take us back up, killer,” Sorath ordered.
“Good idea, Colonel,” the helmsman replied, already piloting the craft higher.
Their defenses held, but Sorath worried that some of those ships would fly out from under the city and give chase. Earlier, they’d survived an encounter with a single vessel, but he didn’t have delusions about winning against five of them. Their whole objective was to avoid notice while the rest of the fleet kept Uthari’s ships occupied.
As they rose back even with the city and above, Sorath walked to the railing. He tried to radiate calm for the sake of the mercenaries and mage crew watching him, but he worried he’d made a huge mistake. He barely breathed as he stared at the edge of the platform, expecting those ships to sail out, weapons blazing.
In addition to lifting the Dauntless, the helmsman navigated them farther away from the city, back out into the clouds. Booms came from all around them as Uthari’s mageships clashed with the invading fleet, but none of the vessels lurking under the platform gave chase.
Sorath exhaled a relieved breath. They must have had orders to stay put and make sure nobody got close to the semi-vulnerable belly of the city.
“Close call. That’s twice we’ve gotten lucky today.” Ferroki waved toward the side of the Dauntless that had been damaged.
“What’s Plan B?” Sasko asked.
Sorath gazed toward the damaged part of their ship, though the hole wasn’t visible from the deck. “It’s coming together for me.”
“Oh?” Sasko and Ferroki asked together, both with equal wariness.
“We’re already damaged,” he mused. “Maybe I can keep Toggs from repairing it.”
“Uh, why?” Sasko asked.
“And I’m sure your sergeant with the fondness for fondling grenades could create some realistic smoke to billow out of the hole in the hull.”
“You think they won’t attack us if we’re close to their city but visibly damaged?” Ferroki asked skeptically.
“I think they won’t attack us if it’s clear we’re out of control and going to crash on that lovely lawn beside their harbor.”
They stared at him as if a few cogs had fallen out of his machinery.
“I only mean for us to pretend to crash, of course.”
“My experience with sailing ships and flying ships,” Sasko said, “is that it’s hard to pretend to crash without actually crashing.”
“We have a good helmsman. I have confidence in his abilities. He kept us under that other ship like a tick on a dog’s belly. That takes talent.”
“Sure,” Sasko said, “all the bards tell tales of the magnificence of the talented tick.”
“Ticks do feature in Su Dom’s fables,” Ferroki murmured, “in lessons on tenacity.”
“Talented and tenacious. That’s our helmsman. I have faith. Find your bomb-loving sergeant and have her report to me.” Sorath patted them on the shoulders, ignoring their dubious expressions, and returned to the hatchway.
He considered getting permission from Captain Toggs, who’d finished barking orders at his crew and was standing up on the forecastle deck, his hands clasped behind his back as he gazed out at the battles. Instead, Sorath pulled aside a junior officer and told him to delay the repairs for now, that the mercenaries had a plan. Though puzzled, the officer went off to relay the message.
It was a foregone conclusion that the captain of the Dauntless would say no to crashing his ship, even a pretend crash. If he could manage this, Sorath wouldn’t tell Toggs until it was too late to turn back.
Flashes and booms came from a battle in the clouds above the Dauntless. They would have to do this quickly, or they would end up more grievously damaged, and crashing five thousand feet below instead of on the city’s peninsula.
“Nobber,” Sorath addressed the helmsman, “give us ten minutes to prep some smoke, and then I need you to pretend to crash the ship on that grassy stretch beside their docks.”
The kid looked back at him, blinking a few times. “Pretend, sir?”
“Yes. Make it look realistic but not too realistic. If we take some more damage on the way in, fine, but we need to be able to fly away afterward. With a huge artifact strapped to our deck. I don’t know how much it weighs, but it could be tons.”
If Sorath succeeded in getting to the portal and attaching hooks and ropes to it, he hoped the ship’s mages had enough energy left to levitate it up to the deck. But he had better not get ahead of himself. A lot needed to go right before they could lift anything.
“Did Captain Toggs say this is all right, sir?” Since he was a mage, Nobber could have telepathically asked the captain for confirmation himself. Interesting that he hadn’t.
“I’m sure he’ll agree that it’s an excellent plan once we get away with the artifact. Maybe you’ll get a medal for incredible flying.” Sorath had no idea if mages gave medals for prowess in flight, but they liked to give out sparkly awards to their military troops, so it was a reasonable bet. Mercenaries preferred time off and combat pay to medals, but the higher-ranking mage officers always had decorations all over the chests of their pretty uniforms.
“A very realistic pretend crash.” Nobber nodded to himself. “I think I can do it, sir.”
“Good.” Sorath resisted the urge to watch and pace as Nobber flew the Dauntless closer.
Usually, the main defensive shield over a sky city protected what was inside the walls, leaving docking areas outside open for ships to come and go during a battle, under the assumption that any mages in the watchtowers could put up temporary shields to protect the area if enemies attempted to land. But it had been a long time since Sorath had been to Utharika. It was possible this sky city did things differently, extending its shield, when activated, over its docking area. It was also possible the mage defenders had temporary shields up over the area now—and would keep them up as a crashing ship plummeted down.
Better not to watch. Besides, he had more to do before they arrived.
“Ten minutes, killer.” Sorath thumped Nobber on the back and left the navigation cabin.
Lieutenant Sasko had rounded up Sergeant Tinder.
She saluted him. “You need something blown up, Colonel?”
“Eventually, I have no doubt, but first, I need smoke. A lot of smoke. I want it to billow out of the hole in the hull, dark and tarry and stinking of death and desperation.”
Tinder leaned close to Sasko. “I know the stink of death, but what’s desperation smell like?”
“Fleeing camels, stale cigars, and Sergeant Basher drinking too much and realizing she’s been flirting with a pretty boy claimed by a zidarr.”
“Oh, I remember that night. The zidarr threatened to melt her tongue with magic and file her nipples off with his sword.” Tinder scratched her jaw. “I’ll see what I can do.”
“Make as much heavy smoke as you can,” Sorath said, worried he should have been more prosaic with his description of what he wanted. “And make it last. Our chances of getting over their wall or cutting through their front gate without being noticed are slim, but if there’s enough smoke and we’re extremely lucky, maybe we can make it work.”
“Our allies better keep them busy,” Sasko said.
“Our success was always going to rely upon that,” Sorath said.
“A fact that makes me all kinds of warm and cozy.” Tinder trotted off to hunt for smoke-producing materials.
“Are you going to take some mages from the crew with you?” Ferroki asked Sorath.
“Yes. I’ve picked out five that are open to taking orders from me—it would be suicidal to go without magic users.”
“It’ll be suicidal anyway.”
“True. Who did you choose from Thorn Company to send with me?”
“Are you planning on stealth or blowing your way into the castle with all the power and ferocity that you can muster?”
“Stealth for as far as it’ll get us. Eventually, they’ll spot us, and we’ll have no choice but to resort to blowing our way through things and hoping for the best.” Sorath hoped they could get to the castle before that, else they would find platoons of mages and zidarr waiting for them, but this whole mission was predicated on luck and more than a few things going their way.
“So, a mix of people. Tinder and Basher, for the blowing-things-up part, and Majirra and Uti for their knack for sneaking up and overpowering people before they know what’s going on. If you need a sniper, Poker and Yuvay can pick sentries off a wall at five hundred yards.”
“What about the kid you just gave the nice magelock to? Tezi.”
Ferroki hesitated. “She’s just a rookie. I was going to keep her here to help defend the ship.”
“She’s got a level head from what I’ve seen, looks to be a good shot, and if we get into the unlikely scenario where flirting with a guard could distract him long enough for the rest of us to bash his head in… she’s your prettiest merc.”
“I didn’t realize flirting was one of your preferred military tactics.”
“I’m not too proud to use subterfuge and diversion. Any tactic that gets me into the enemy stronghold. I would flirt with the guards myself, but I don’t find that as effective as it used to be.”
Ferroki eyed his oft-broken nose and scarred face. “Strange.”
“Isn’t it?”
Tinder lumbered past, carrying a barrel, sacks of black powder, and a container that, judging by the scent, held either rotten eggs or sulfur. She’d put that collection together with impressive speed. Dr. Fret trailed after her, carrying matches and grenades in a yarn sack, and kept wrinkling her nose at the odor wafting back to her.
“Give us five minutes, Colonel,” Tinder said, as they headed belowdecks.
Sorath stepped into the navigation cabin to monitor their approach. The city was no longer in view—wisely, Nobber had backed them farther away from the action for their musing moments—but flashes of light ahead and to the right promised they were still close. Outside, the rain picked up, and rivulets ran down the glass windows of the cabin. Sorath hoped that wouldn’t affect Tinder’s ability to blow a suitable amount of smoke into the sky.
Ferroki stepped inside. “I’ve let everyone we chose except for Tinder know they’re going in with you. They’re grabbing their gear. Tinder is starting her smoke-making fire, but I’ll tell her as soon as she’s done. Another minute or two, and we can head in.”
“Thank you.” Sorath lifted a finger before she stepped back out. “A word?”
He stepped back from the helmsman’s seat, so they could have a moment of privacy.
“Are you having doubts?” Ferroki asked.
“By the minute.” He smirked. “But I wanted to tell you, in case you wondered, I didn’t pick you for my team for a reason.”
“Because captains aren’t supposed to be expendable and don’t get sent on infiltration teams?” she asked dryly.
“Usually, that’s true, but you won’t be any safer back here.”
“I know.”
“In part, I wanted you here because we’ll need someone smart who can direct a brilliantly targeted assault in order to get this ship in to retrieve the artifact from the heart of an enemy city.”
“And you think that’s me? I’m touched.”
“I’ve seen you fight. And you’ve been in the game as long as I have, and you haven’t lost your company—or your life—so that’s a testament to the rest.”
“We lost someone today,” she said grimly.
“I know. I’m sorry.” He shouldn’t have brought that up and wished he could say more to console her—it was always awful to lose men—but there wasn’t much time. “I have a small request. I’m hoping you’ll agree to it, given that you’re still toting that medallion around even though it’s akin to being marked for death.”
“Yes?” Ferroki didn’t even look wary, the gods bless her.
“I left my manuscript in a secret nook under a flagstone in the curio shop. If I don’t survive today, will you retrieve it the next time you’re back south and figure out a way to get it published? Maybe some of those archaeologists will feel grateful that you hauled them away from that volcano and have contacts in academia with a press. The manuscript is incomplete, but maybe you’d know a good way to finish it off. You like your words as much as I do.”
“And yet have never been tempted to tell tales of boudoir buddies.”
“Give it time. That fine turn of phrase will grow on you.”
“I don’t think it’s any more likely that I’ll survive the day than you, but if I somehow do and you don’t, I’ll find a way back there and get it published for you.”
“Thank you.” Sorath had been fairly certain she would say yes, but her agreement still warmed his heart. Since they’d already discussed kissing, and why it wasn’t appropriate, he hugged her. That might not be appropriate either, but the moment required something.
She hugged him back. “Good luck down there. Don’t get all of my people killed.”
“I’ll do my best.”
“We’re blowing smoke like a charred pig in a pit fire, Captain,” Tinder said, leaning in. Her eyebrows rose at their embrace. “Oh, sorry. I didn’t know you two were having a tender moment.”
Sorath released her.
Ferroki patted him on the back before stepping away. “We’re done. Give Fret instructions on how to keep the smoke going, and gather your weapons and explosives. You’ve been picked for the incursion team.”
“Have I? Well, that’s a joy.”
“You’ll get to blow things up,” Ferroki said. “You know you love that.”
“This is true.”
“It’s going to be tense,” Sorath told Tinder. “Any special weapons or methods of attack you and the others can bring would be appreciated. We’re probably going to end up facing zidarr.”
“Zidarr?” Tinder grimaced. “I may wet myself.”
“That’s not the kind of special attack I had in mind.”
“Pee power.” Ferroki smiled.
Sorath grunted. “Female mercs aren’t as different from male mercs as I imagined.”
“Uh, sir?” came Nobber’s worried voice from the wheel.
He’d navigated the Dauntless closer to the city again, and they looked through the rain and clouds down upon the wall and docks. He’d raised their craft to a higher elevation, maybe so it could convincingly plunge down to “crash” from above.
Before, the docks had been empty. But now, a black mageship was gliding toward a berth near the city gates.
“This could be a problem,” Nobber said. “I think that’s the Star Flyer. Malek’s ship. Any ruse we try… He’s going to see through it.”
True, but Sorath found the approach of the other ship promising. It suggested that there wasn’t a shield protecting the docks—or at least that it was down for the time being.
Booms came from behind the Dauntless. Close behind it.
Sorath leaned out the hatch and spotted two ships firing at each other less than a hundred yards back. One of their allies and one of their enemies. Fiery blasts streaked from ship to ship, and Sorath couldn’t tell who was winning, but if Uthari’s vessel came out on top, its crew might turn its attention to the Dauntless.
“We don’t have the option to back away again,” Nobber said.
To the side, black plumes of smoke caught Sorath’s eye. Tinder’s smoke. It billowed out of the hole in the hull, reminding him of the Dragon Perch volcano as it had been about to blow.
“That won’t burn indefinitely,” Ferroki warned from behind him. “We’ve got limited time during which this might work.”
“I know.” Sorath stepped back into the navigation cabin. They would have to chance it, even if it meant crashing under Malek’s nose. “Tinder might get an opportunity to use her special attack earlier than expected.”
“Hell,” Tinder said.
“Go get your gear, join the rest of the team, and be ready.” Ferroki thumped her on the back.
“Look, sir.” Nobber thrust a finger toward the viewing window as a man in tan pants and a brown leather jacket leaped down from the city walls, dropping fifty feet to land in a crouch without hurting himself, and sprinted for the now-docked mageship.
If not for that move and the blazing main-gauche and sword he carried as he ran, the smoke, dark, and rain would have kept Sorath from being certain he was a zidarr. But he was not only certain of that but knew those were Malek’s favored weapons.
There was no gangplank extended, but Malek ran down the docks and vaulted across the gap to the deck of his ship. Crewmen out in the rain raised their arms in a cheer. As the vessel lifted into the air, Malek joined a uniformed officer on deck. General Tonovan, most likely.
Maybe things were getting bad for the defenders, and Uthari was sending out his best. Sorath hoped that was the case.
The Dauntless rocked, startling him.
“Fire from behind!” one of the mages out on deck called. “Raising our barrier.”
“We’re out of time,” Ferroki said quietly.
“Actually, we’ve waited until the perfect time.” Sorath jogged to Nobber’s seat. “Take us in, killer.”
More fire streaked toward them from the victorious ship behind them—Uthari’s victorious ship. Fortunately, the mages of the Dauntless were ready now and had their defenses up.
Captain Toggs, a graying crust of a mage who wasn’t nearly as polite as Nobber, stomped into navigation. “What’s going on? We’re being fired on.” He thrust his arm back through the hatchway. “You’re going the wrong way, Nobber.”
“He’s taking us in for our mission,” Sorath said, wishing the Star Flyer were rising faster. Malek’s ship was still above the docks, rotating slowly toward a battle being fought off to the side of the city. “Tell them to let a couple hit us, Nobber,” Sorath said quietly, trusting that the mages could give telepathic commands to each other. He didn’t want to explain his reason to the captain.
“Hit us?” Captain Toggs had better hearing than Sorath would have guessed. “Are you insane?”
“Yes, sir,” Nobber said vaguely—it wasn’t clear who he was responding to, but he grinned as he started zigzagging, inasmuch as the ponderous ship could manage such maneuvers. He must have relayed the message to the mages responsible for keeping the barrier up, for a fireball made it through, slamming into the rear of the hull.
Toggs swore and ran outside, yelling at his men to get the barrier back up and for others to prepare to return fire.
“Here we go,” Nobber whispered, pushing down the altitude lever.
“Should I hold on to something?” Ferroki asked quietly.
“Respectfully suggest your ass, ma’am.” Nobber spun the wheel hard, and the ship tilted far more than should have been possible for one of the steady mageships, then descended so fast Sorath’s stomach pitched into his boots.
He grabbed a beam on the ceiling—and Ferroki before she could go flying. This was it. No turning back now.
Chapter 26
26
Malek crossed his arms and gazed over the railing as the Star Flyer rose away from Utharika and the docks. He peered at the hatch that led into the infrastructure under the city, half expecting Jadora and Jak to pop out of it, though that shouldn’t happen. When he’d passed through, he’d fixed the barrier there, ensuring they couldn’t escape if they found their way to the exit shaft. But they were resourceful. He imagined Jadora flinging a chemical concoction at one of the door-domes and somehow knocking out its power.
Malek hadn’t wanted to leave the tunnels, not until he found them, but Uthari had summoned him, warning that Zaruk had secured more allies and scrounged more forces than expected. He’d ordered Malek to join Tonovan in defending the city and said Malek could search for the missing prisoners later, reminding him that they were on an island in the sky—there was nowhere for them to go.
Fortunately, Uthari hadn’t made any snide comments about how Malek had let them escape out from under his nose in the library. Typically, Uthari was too measured and mature for snide comments. Yidar had been the one to make one. Yidar, who had been pushing to get Malek out of the castle and join the battle earlier. Malek hadn’t wanted to entertain Jak’s suggestion that Yidar was up to something fishy, but the more he thought about it, the stranger his words seemed. And now Yidar was back in the castle with Uthari and the artifact. They weren’t alone, by any means, but with Malek and Gorsith off in ships defending the city, Yidar was the only zidarr there.
Booms and flashes of orange in the night sky drew Malek’s attention to the east. Two ships had come out of the clouds and were descending rapidly toward the city. One was familiar—one of Uthari’s mageships captained by a reliable man—and the other belonged to an enemy, the hull painted green in Queen Vorsha’s colors. There were as many of her ships out here as Zaruk’s, and Dy’s brown-and-gold vessels were rare.
Malek lifted a hand to hurl magic at Vorsha’s ship, since it was barreling along a trajectory that would take it perilously close to the city. But its lights were out, fires burned in several spots in the back, and black plumes of smoke roiled from a gaping hole in the hull. He didn’t see any crew members left on the deck. Maybe they’d evacuated on lifeboats.
He squinted to gauge its path. Would it zip right past and crash thousands of feet below? If so, there was no point in bothering with it. Or would it crash into the docks? The latter would do damage and be a pain in the ass for someone to clean up later.
As it flew closer, Uthari’s ship chasing it and lighting up its backside with fire, Malek started to raise a shield over the docks to ensure it would bounce off instead of crashing there. But Tonovan jogged over, jabbed him in the shoulder, and pointed off to the port side of the Star Flyer.
A hulking blue-and-silver mageship—one of King Zaruk’s—was out there in the clouds, its crew aiming magelocks and cannons toward the city. No, toward the castle. The enemy ship was angling past the Star Flyer and toward Uthari’s headquarters. A fit figure in black stood atop the forecastle with his arms raised, rain plastering his short white hair to his skull.
“Stone Heart,” Malek growled.
“That’s why Uthari sent you out here,” Tonovan said. “He’s taken out the shield on the west side and obliterated two of our watchtowers. He’ll have his eye on the castle now.”
Malek had no love for Tonovan, but when it came to defending Uthari and the city, they were on the same side. For this battle, they would fight as brothers.
“Take us up to him.” Malek narrowed his eyes and channeled a gust of wind to slam into Stone Heart’s side and distract him from whatever magic he was about to hurl. “Get me on that ship. I’ll deal with him.”
“Good. The bastard smashed a hole in our deck earlier when we opened fire on him. He can cut right through our defenses.” Tonovan touched a gash leaking blood down his jaw to mingle with the rain and drip onto his uniform. “Then he disappeared back into the clouds before we could chase him down. This is moon-cursed weather for defending against a siege.” He sneered upward at clouds that were growing darker as the night deepened.
When Malek’s attack hit Stone Heart, surprise flashed on the other zidarr’s face. He dropped his arms and wheeled to face Malek across the distance.
“You should have expected me, old nemesis,” Malek said quietly.
The other ship was too far away for Stone Heart to hear the words, but Malek didn’t try to hide the thought in his mind. The cool glare that replaced the surprise suggested his enemy had heard.
Stone Heart tested him next, sending a stream of raw power toward the deck under Malek’s and Tonovan’s feet. Their mages were ready and had bolstered the ship’s defenses, but several of them grunted and staggered back under the extreme onslaught. Malek channeled his own magic into their barrier, ensuring Stone Heart’s attack didn’t get through.
The Star Flyer ascended higher, leaving the harbor and the city below, and veered toward their enemy. Malek glanced down in time to see the smoking mageship smash onto the grassy lawn near the docks. Fortunately, the island’s sturdy engineering held up under the onslaught, but he frowned at the mages in the watchtowers. They should have kept that from happening, but they were busy gaping up at Stone Heart’s ship, worrying the zidarr would blast them to oblivion.
Malek wouldn’t let that happen.
He readied another attack as their ship closed on the enemy vessel. He knew, just as Stone Heart knew, that their magical attacks wouldn’t get past each other’s defenses, but once they faced each other from the deck of the same ship, with blades whirring in a flurry of physical attacks that would come too quickly for one to concentrate on magic, a winner would be decided. Malek intended to be that winner.
Jak waited with his hand on the handle of the hatch, his arms aching from hanging on the ladder for so long. He wanted to look outside, but the last time he’d raised the hatch a couple of inches to peek out, what he’d seen had nearly made him pitch off the rungs. Malek had appeared out of nowhere, leaping down from the towering city wall, as if it were a five-foot drop instead of fifty. He’d run toward a familiar mageship that had docked for him.
Jak had pulled the hatch back down so quickly, he’d hit himself on the head. Then he’d waited, holding his breath, afraid Malek had heard the thump and would turn around. But nobody had lifted the hatch; as far as Jak knew, nobody had seen him yet. Between the rain and night’s darkness, the hatch shouldn’t be that noticeable from the towers atop the wall.
“Should I check again?” he asked, noticing Mother gazing up at him, the waning light of their torch showing the concern in her eyes. “If Malek’s ship left—with him on it—we could take a stab at finding a hiding place out on the docks. Maybe some other ship will land, and we can stow away. By now, you’d think some of Uthari’s mageships would be damaged enough to force them to come home for repairs.”
“Go ahead and check. I’ll—” She broke off and peered into the dark tunnel.
The nearby machinery was still off, but she looked like she’d heard something. Or someone?
He frowned. What if a city maintenance worker had come to see why the machinery had gone off? Did people worry about such things while their city was being bombed? Mother’s joke about water closets came to mind. Maybe it hadn’t been a joke.
When she looked up again, she held a finger to her lips, her eyes grave. “Voices,” she mouthed.
Jak tightened his grip on the handle. They were going to have to take their chances and hope they could find a bolt-hole out there.
A thunderous smashing and wrenching of metal reached his ears, almost startling him into losing his grip again. That hadn’t been one of the ubiquitous booms of explosives hitting the city’s defenses.
He lifted the hatch to peek out and almost ended up coughing and giving away his position. Great plumes of black smoke billowed toward him, the acrid odor assaulting his nostrils.
His first thought was that someone had lobbed explosives at the docks and they’d caught fire. But there was enough light from streetlamps to make out the hull of a mageship out in the grass. The wrecked vessel was tilted dramatically to one side, a huge hole in its hull pointing upward. Clouds of black smoke flowed out of it so thick and tarry that it reminded Jak of the time he’d seen—and smelled—a vat of molten rubber catch fire in one of the university chemistry labs.
Strangely, there weren’t any flames leaping from the hole, but small fires burned on other parts of the ship. If any of the crew had survived the landing, they must have been too injured to worry about putting them out. Or maybe they were too afraid that if they showed their faces, the guards in the watchtowers would open fire on them.
Jak wished he could see up to the wall and towers to catch the reactions of the defenders, but he hadn’t dared open the hatch more than a couple of inches, and he didn’t do so now. Two uniformed guards appeared, running out from the gate to check on the downed ship. They carried magelocks and wore kerchiefs over their mouths and noses to protect against the noxious smoke. Jak, with his eyes watering, wished he had a kerchief. If he sneezed as they ran past, he would give his position away.
If he’d been wiser, he would have closed the hatch, so there was no possibility of that happening, but he couldn’t help but think this could be their opportunity. They couldn’t stow away on the wrecked ship—it could blow up at any second—but the smoke made an impressive screen. If the guards had left the gate open, he and his mother might be able to sneak into the city and find a place to hide until the battle ended.
He leaned down to wave for her to come up but found she’d already climbed the rungs and was right below him. She held a finger to her lips again, then pointed downward.
This time, Jak also heard the voices.
“It couldn’t have turned off on its own,” a man said from back in the tunnel. “Someone was down here monkeying with it.”
“No kidding, genius. It was that dead woman. She broke all the domes.”
“How would a servant from the castle break the door-domes? It’s not like you can beat them with a wrench.”
Or even shoot them, Jak thought.
Mother pointed upward, silently asking if they could go out.
Jak checked again and barely stifled a groan. For some reason, the two soldiers had stopped right in front of his position instead of continuing to the wreck. They weren’t looking at the hatch, so he didn’t think they’d seen that it was ajar. The backs of their black boots were to him as something in the sky beyond the docks had them riveted.
Jak pressed his nose to the rim of the hatchway trying to see what. He could just make out a battle between two mageships, one blue and one black. The latter looked like the Star Flyer.
Surprisingly, the mageships weren’t firing at each other. Two swordsmen came into view on the deck of the blue vessel, their glowing white blades slashing at each other so rapidly it was impossible to track the fight. That was why the ships weren’t attacking each other. Malek, and who knew how many others, had found a way onto the enemy ship. Jak didn’t recognize his opponent, but he carried two scimitars, each glowing as brightly as Malek’s blades, and Jak had no doubt this was another zidarr. Blue was King Zaruk’s color, so maybe that was his right-hand man, Stone Heart.
As the zidarr fought, blades striking as fast as lightning, Jak found himself as riveted as the two guards. Who would come out on top? Even though Malek had kidnapped him and been his captor these last few days, Jak found himself cringing any time he seemed to be at a disadvantage and breathing a sigh of relief whenever he recovered and pressed his opponent back.
Mother tapped the sole of Jak’s shoe and pointed upward urgently. That knocked him out of his trance. If the maintenance men found the problem and flipped the lever back on while Jak and Mother were hanging there, they would be as dead as Altrucia.
He pushed upward on the hatch. He had to hope the guards were too busy watching the fight to notice him and his mother crawling out.
But as he put his hand down to climb out, the guards spun. Not toward him but toward several figures rushing through the smoke toward them with their weapons raised.
Jak almost jumped back down into the shaft. But the newcomers had come from the wreck, not the gate, and they were angling for the guards, not for him.
As Jak hung partway out of the shaft, the group of men and women sprang for the two guards. With efficient and deadly slashes, they downed their opponents before the men could yell a warning.
The thick smoke made it hard to make out uniforms or faces. All Jak knew was that they’d come from the downed ship and were therefore working for Queen Vorsha. They could be allies of the mage who’d sent Altrucia to lead Jak and Mother out of the castle, from one prison into the next.
“Look out,” a young blonde woman whispered and pointed at Jak.
When they’d first met, she’d made such an impression on him that he had no trouble identifying her now. Soot smeared her face, her uniform was frayed and burned on one side, and she carried a long magelock, but she still looked more like a fellow university student than a fierce mercenary.
“Thorn Company girl,” Jak whispered, waving. “We need to get out of here. Can you help us?”
Maybe it was an inane thing to ask—all of the mercenaries turned to gape at him—given that their wrecked ship was burning behind them.
“Uhm.” She glanced uncertainly at the others. “We’re on a mission.”
“Is that a way in?” A big man with a scarred face strode toward Jak, then peered into the shaft.
Mother, who’d been trying to get out, almost bumped into him.
“Do you still have my medallion?” Jak whispered to the blonde, not sure who any of the other people were. The women had to be from Thorn Company, but there were also five mages in the uniforms of Vorsha’s people. Would they try to kidnap them?
“I—” she started to answer.
But the big man pointed into the shaft and whispered, “Down, down,” in an authoritative voice.
Just as Mother pulled herself out and crouched next to Jak, the big man—their leader?—sprang into the shaft, not bothering with the rungs.
“There are mages down there,” Mother whispered as more mercenaries piled in after him.
The blonde woman lingered until a stout older mercenary slapped her on the back. “Get moving.”
“Our medallion?” Jak looked toward the wreck, wondering if it might yet be salvageable.
Was there any chance they could fly it out of there? Even if they managed, the guards might shoot it down. Those on the wall were just as riveted by the battling zidarr as the other two had been, but they would surely notice an entire ship taking off from under their noses.
“I think the captain has it,” the blonde girl said.
“Where’s she?”
“Rookie,” the older woman barked from halfway down the rungs. “Get down here.”
Jak gripped his mother’s arm and nodded toward the ship.
Before they could take a step, a guard up in the closest tower shouted, “There’s someone down there!”
Jak almost sprinted for the wreck anyway, thinking the guards might not be able to fire at them through the city’s defensive barrier, but blue charges from magelocks blasted into the ground. One slammed into the hatch, half ripping it from its hinges.
“Back in,” Mother whispered, sliding down the rungs. “And hurry. Don’t forget about the barrier.”
The barrier he expected to be activated any second. The mercenaries had already run off down the tunnel, so they may have distracted the maintenance men.
“I think our medallion is on the ship.” Jak crouched, hiding his body behind the hatch as much as he could. “We don’t want to go back down there.”
More magelocks fired. A charge hit inches from him, blowing away pavement. Pieces slammed into his shoulder and the side of his face. Pain blasted him, and he stumbled into the shaft. Mother tried to slow him as he fell past her, and her grip kept him from crashing all the way to the bottom. He managed to hook an arm around the rungs. More charges slammed down up above, and Mother pulled the hatch shut and descended again.
Jak sagged against the wall at the bottom. He was almost glad that the mercenaries hadn’t waited for them, since they might blame him for the fact that the guards now knew people were down here… and would doubtless relay the message. True, Malek had already known, but he probably hadn’t been that worried about Jak and Mother sabotaging things. If the guards realized enemy troops had come out of the wreck, they would send teams down right away.
“What do we do?” Jak whispered, glancing up. Mother hadn’t been able to close the hatch all the way, not with its now-warped hinges, and shouts and booms echoed down to them.
“Ask her for information, I think.” Mother nodded toward the dark tunnel.
He’d thought all of the mercenaries had gone ahead, but the blonde girl was waiting for them.
“I’m Professor Jadora Freedar,” Mother told her. “I didn’t catch your name before.” She spoke so calmly and formally, as if guards might not yank open the hatch at any moment.
Worried about that possibility, Jak waved for them to get out of the shaft.
“I’m Tezi. The captain has your medallion, Professor. It’s caused… a lot of trouble.”
Mother winced. “I was afraid of that. Is she back on your ship? Did she survive the landing?”
“This way, Rookie,” the gruff mercenary called.
“Bring your friends,” the big man added. “Especially if they know the way to the castle.”
The mercenaries reached the alcove and lit lanterns, providing enough light for Jak to see a red-uniformed maintenance man crumpled on the grating at their feet. Blood dripped from a short pickaxe the leader gripped. Or was that something fastened to his arm in place of a hand?
“She survived,” Tezi said as she jogged ahead, gesturing for them to follow her. “But we’re on a mission. Help us, and I’m sure we can take you to her.”
“What’s the mission?” Mother asked, though she could probably already guess.
Jak could.
“We’re supposed to get the artifact and take it back to Zaruk and his allies. They hired our company to help fetch it.”
When they reached the others, Jak counted eleven total in the group. The other maintenance man lay dead in the alcove, his neck broken.
Jak stared numbly at the bodies. Even though Uthari had kidnapped him, these were presumably innocent people who happened to live in his city. Mages, undoubtedly, but they’d never done anything personally to Jak or his mother. To kill them simply because they were in the way…
“This is war, kid,” the leader said, making Jak wonder if he’d mumbled his thoughts aloud. Maybe the horror on his face was easy to interpret. “And why is your rookie telling this boy our plans, Sergeant?”
“She probably likes him. He’s kind of cute.”
“Sergeant.” Tezi shook her head in vigorous denial, something Jak might have found disappointing in another time and place. But now, he was standing next to two dead people. “These are the archaeologists from the volcano,” Tezi added. “The ones Malek kidnapped.”
“The ones who pulled that artifact out of the earth after ten thousand years and started this whole war?” the big man asked.
“Uh.” Tezi looked helplessly at Jak.
He didn’t know what to say. Until that moment, it hadn’t occurred to him to think of things that way, but the mercenary wasn’t wrong.
The sergeant grunted. “The wizards all hate each other and are all always vying to gain power. A pin dropping on the wrong side of a border could have started this war. I say we take these two along so they can show us to the artifact.”
Jak looked at Mother, who was looking back at him, her expression as grave as his. The portal was supposed to be for terrene people to use, to find a solution to the oppression of living under all these wizards. They didn’t want Zaruk to have it any more than Uthari, and it was very possible that Zaruk’s plans for it would be even more detrimental for humanity than Uthari’s. If Uthari was to be believed, he wanted to find a longevity plant. What if Zaruk wanted to raise an army of dragons to take over Torvil and enslave everybody, mages and regular humans alike?
“What were you two doing in that shaft?” the big man asked.
“Escaping,” Mother said and introduced herself again. “Who are you?”
“Colonel Sorath. I’m in charge of this incursion.”
A clang sounded—someone throwing open the hatch.
“Noncombatants out of the way,” Sorath said, pushing Jak and Mother into the alcove. “Rookie Tezi, guard them. Keep them alive at all costs. Mages, mercs, with me.”
As boots rang out on the ladder rungs in the shaft, he charged back in that direction with his team behind him. Tezi pointed for Jak and Mother to step into the alcove. She didn’t have a lantern, so they were left in the dark. During the climb out—and rush back in—they’d lost their torches.
“Are we prisoners again?” Jak whispered to Mother, wishing they’d been left alone instead of with a guard. Even if Tezi wasn’t menacing, she was one of them and would likely report back what they said.
Mother sighed. “I don’t know, but trying to go back to raid that castle with a small group of mercenaries sounds like suicide.”
“For them or for us?”
“Both.”
Chapter 27
27
Jadora wanted to talk to the mercenary leader, but the grim-faced man was pressing forward without pause. In the twenty minutes she and Jak had been with him, he’d led his people to kill two groups of Uthari’s guards, mages sent down into the tunnels after them. The fast, efficient way the mercenaries dispatched their enemies chilled her. They threw small explosives to distract them from using their magic and then attacked with deadly determination.
But what choice did she and Jak have but to follow them? Jadora had little doubt that they would find legions of castle defenders waiting for them in the library if they returned, but the dome barriers were still up in the other tunnels along the route back, funneling the mercenaries in that direction. And now that Uthari’s people knew there were intruders in the tunnels, it wouldn’t be safe to hide out down there. Further, if Malek finished his fight with the other zidarr, he would also come looking for them here. She and Jak had few options.
The group passed Altrucia’s body without comment, but the leader—Sorath, she reminded herself—halted when they reached the intersection where the green-clad mage who’d started this lay crumpled.
Jadora braced herself. Since the mercenaries were on the same side as the dead man, they would want to know how he’d died. Sorath directed his mages and soldiers to guard the four tunnels and waved for Jadora to join him in the center of the intersection. With the space tight in the underground labyrinth, they had to stand inches from the dead man.
“Professor Freedar,” Sorath said. “I’m sure you regret that you ran into us, and that we drew attention to your escape attempt.”
With the harbor empty of everything save the wrecked ship, they hadn’t had anywhere to go, but she nodded in agreement.
“I assume your goal is to return to your home?” Sorath pointed downward and raised his eyebrows. “With your medallion?”
Uh, Ferroki had told him about that? Jadora hadn’t sworn the mercenary captain to secrecy but wished she hadn’t said anything.
“To return to land, yes. As for home?” Jadora spread her arms helplessly. “King Uthari wants us for what we know. It would be dangerous to our friends and family if we went back to the university.”
“Us?” Sorath pointed at Jak, eyebrows rising higher. “Both of you?”
Though he was bedraggled with a bruise swelling on his cheek, Jak lifted his chin. “I’m very desirable.”
“I’d ask the women if that were true if we had more time. Look, we could use your help finding the artifact and any intelligence you have on the layout of Uthari’s castle. Oh, and if you have any idea where the magical device is that keeps the barrier over their city, or at least the castle, we’d love help finding that too. We’ll handle getting the artifact onto our ship. We don’t want you caught in the crossfire or anywhere that there will be combat.” Sorath grimaced at the dead mage. “And if we all get out of here alive, I’ll find some way to get you back to land before we take the artifact to our employer.”
“Your employer, another king.”
“Yes.”
“I appreciate your offer,” Jadora said, “but we don’t want Zaruk to have the portal any more than Uthari.”
“The whole point is for humanity to have it,” Jak added. “Terrene humans who need what it offers.”
A couple of the mages in the mercenary party frowned over at him. Jadora lifted a finger to her lips to remind him not to speak negatively about mages. Maybe she shouldn’t have admitted she didn’t want Zaruk to have the portal.
“It came from King Zaruk’s territory, didn’t it?” Sorath asked. “He claims that it’s rightfully his.”
“We were on a joint archaeological mission with permission to dig there by the Perchver magistrate and university heads,” Jadora said. “It wasn’t originally from that area though, so there’s a question of who the rightful owner is. If the dragons who made it, or their descendants, returned to Torvil, it would belong to them.”
Sorath waved a hand. “We don’t have time to discuss the politics.” His tone said he didn’t care much about them. “Will you help us find it? If we take you back to land afterward?”
“Even if you can get it through their defensive shield,” Jak said, “what ship are you going to escape with it on? Yours crashed.”
“It’s only partially crashed. With luck, Captain Ferroki is using the cover of smoke and battle to get the Dauntless repaired so it can lift off as soon as I give her the signal.” Sorath patted a compact tube tucked into his belt.
“Some noise down this way, sir,” one of the mercenaries whispered, pointing her magelock in the direction they’d come.
“Of course there is,” Sorath grumbled. “Tinder, Davrosh, watch our rears. Everyone else, this way.”
Sorath glanced at one of the destroyed domes and nodded for his team to continue on toward the castle. He must have been familiar with them or figured out the significance of the broken ones.
“We’ll help,” Jadora said, walking behind him. “As long as you keep your word and find a way to get us back down to land—with the medallion.”
He glanced back. “It’s key to getting the portal to work, isn’t it?”
It crossed her mind to lie, but he was her only way out, and he seemed to already know the answer to the question. “We believe it is quite literally the key.”
“They’ll hunt you forever to get it. Why not let them have it?”
“They have everything else,” Jadora said bleakly. “My late husband believed—and I believe—that this could lead to a change.” She kept the words vague, since the mages might still be paying attention, but Sorath’s eyes sharpened as he looked back at her again. Did he grasp what she meant?
He lifted his arm, the pickaxe tool where his hand should have been. “I’d like to see a change.”
Dare she hope Sorath would abandon his current contract if she could convince him that change might be possible? Assuming terrene humans were the ones to gain access to the portal. And assuming it still worked and led somewhere with dragons, dragons who could be convinced to become allies against the mages. All that assumed a lot, and she knew it, but her husband had been so certain it could work, that it was worth fighting for. Worth dying for.
“I’ll be happy to tell you about our plans if we survive and get out of here.” Jadora would wait until later to try to convince him to… fail to return the portal to Zaruk.
Sorath started to reply, but a boom came from the city above, and the tunnels quaked, pitching them into the walls and each other. Snaps came from the ceiling as the grating trembled under their boots. Jadora’s shoulder struck the wall hard, and she barely kept her footing. The light from the glowing tendril under the grating flashed twice and went out, leaving them in the dark.
“That was a lot worse than the other attacks,” Jak said.
One of the mages leading the group conjured an orange ball of light.
Something clattered onto the grating, and dirt trickled down onto Jadora, brushing her cheek. No, not dirt. The aggregate material the mages had used to build these tunnels was crumbling. She looked grimly at the ceiling. A long jagged crack had appeared, and chunks were still falling out.
“I think that means the city’s defensive shield is down,” Sorath said. “That will help us complete our mission, but we’re going to have to hurry.”
If they didn’t, they would be annihilated right along with the city.
Sorath charged into the lead. Jadora allowed herself to be swept along in the rush of mercenaries. Though she worried they might be buried if the mages didn’t get their defenses back up and the city took numerous direct hits, for the first time she felt some hope that they might be able to get the portal away from the kings. If Sorath and the mercenaries could be convinced to help her instead of turning it over to their employers, that could be the key to success.
Another powerful jolt rocked the tunnels. More snaps emanated from the ceiling, not overhead this time but in the darkness behind them. The cacophonous crashes and thuds of a rockfall echoed to them. Shouts of anger and pain and orders to “raise your defenses” came from the mages who had been trying to catch up with them.
“We better get off this island before it falls out of the sky,” one of the mercenaries muttered.
“We’re almost back to the library,” Jak said.
“A library in the castle?” Sorath asked. “That’s where you escaped from?”
“Yes,” Jak said.
“Any chance the portal is waiting on the floor in there?”
“No, it’s in the courtyard. It’s too big to fit indoors.”
“I hope it’s not too big to fit on our ship,” one of the mercenaries said.
“If we have to,” Sorath said, “we’ll fly it out of here on a rope hanging from the wastewater pipe.”
“There are ladder rungs ahead,” the mage creating the light said.
The group picked up their speed, but another shock jolted the city. Cracks and snaps rang out ahead, and a huge chunk of the ceiling tumbled down in front of them, throwing up rock dust that left them all coughing. If they’d wanted to make a stealthy incursion, the probability of that had just plummeted further. Though the mages defending the city had more to worry about than intruders in their tunnels now.
It would be the perfect time to get the artifact, but the way was now blocked. Rubble lay piled up to the ceiling. Pipes were visible above, and the sounds of combat were much louder now, but it didn’t look like enough of the ceiling had fallen away for them to get out that way. Too bad. Jadora guessed they were inside the castle grounds now. There was no reason they needed to go up through the library, except that those shouts made it sound like half of Uthari’s soldiers might be right above them.
“Start digging,” Sorath said. “Quietly.”
“Our pursuers are coming,” someone in the back said. “They must know we’re here.”
Sorath stepped past Jadora and Jak, joining the mercenaries in the rear. There was only room for two of them to stand shoulder to shoulder in the tunnel, but they formed a wall of grit and weapons.
“We’ll keep them back.” Sorath drew his magelock. “The rest of you dig and clear the way as quickly as possible.”
They already were, men and women kneeling on the rocks, dragging chunks down from the top. Jadora could hear Uthari’s people running, boots ringing on the grating, and doubted the mercenaries would clear a way to crawl through in time. She hunkered down, hoping not to be hit in a firefight. There was no room for them to help dig or defend.
Jak had a hand on one of the pistols he’d gotten from their would-be kidnapper, and he pointed at the other one as he met Jadora’s eyes.
“Do you want it now?” he whispered.
“No.” She waved for him to squat down with her and make as small a target as possible. “And don’t you jump into shooting people.” She lowered her voice, not wanting the mercenaries to hear. “If we’re all captured, they might be more lenient if it’s clear we weren’t helping the intruders.”
Jak scowled. “I’m worried less about how things look than saving our butts.”
“You waving a magelock around won’t save any butts.” She pointed for him to stop touching the weapon and get down, then started pushing some of the rocks that had come from the pile into cover they could hide behind.
“I was going to shoot it, not wave it.”
“Don’t do either. As long as we’re just innocent academics, nobody needs to feel compelled to kill us.”
“Innocent academics can be caught by stray bullets, the same as anyone else.”
“Then rub your lucky compass and pray to Shylezar.”
“Are you going to rub your vials?”
“Every chance I get.”
In the back of his suite, in a room full of magical devices that were connected to the energy sources throughout the city, King Uthari closed his hand on a crystal and channeled his power into it. It flowed through conduits in the castle walls, down into the underground infrastructure of Utharika, and to one of the central generators that kept the city’s defenses up. He sensed two of his mages at the generator, already hurrying to repair damage that had knocked out the shield, and Uthari willed his magic to mingle with theirs, lending them the power they needed to quickly repair the device.
The shield had only been down for a minute, and Uthari’s mageships were keeping the invading fleet from getting close enough to land many attacks, but some were getting through. He was well aware of damage being done to his city and his citizens being harmed. Fortunately, the talented mages knew how to use his power, and they telepathically let him know when they had enough and gave him an estimate as to how much longer it would take to get the shield back up. Five minutes.
Uthari frowned—it was a long time for the city to remain exposed—but accepted that they were doing the best they could. He reached out telepathically to General Tonovan and several other officers captaining his fleet and ordered them closer to the city to keep enemy ships from dropping explosives and magical attacks at vulnerable targets.
Once that was done, he returned to the office in his parlor to check on Malek. A magical viewer he’d long ago created for the wall next to his desk displayed an overview of the numerous battles going on around the city, including the one between the Star Flyer and Zaruk’s flagship. Through the window over the desk, Uthari also caught glimpses of the two vessels in the clouds not far from the city wall. On the deck of Zaruk’s ship, Malek and Stone Heart were fighting, as they had been since before the shield went down.
Uthari knew Stone Heart was a powerful wizard and as good a fighter as any, but he’d expected Malek to best him, especially after they’d gone to swords. Worried for his most loyal and capable zidarr, Uthari was tempted to order his personal mageship to come pick him up so he could go assist Malek. He’d had the vessel readied before the enemy showed up, and it was docked to the roof in the back of the castle.
These days, Uthari wasn’t as spry with a blade, but his power had not waned over the years. If it had, someone would have tried to take his throne from him long ago. Only the need to keep an eye on the city to ensure the safety of the citizens who trusted him kept him in the castle. From here, he could see everything on the viewer and more helpfully direct his officers inside and outside of the city walls.
Still, the urge to go out there and fight called to him. If he had trusted Yidar more, he might have left the young zidarr in charge of the castle and his command, but Yidar was no Malek. And the magistrate, second in command after Uthari, would put the needs of the city far above the need to utterly destroy their enemies. When last Uthari had checked in on him, he’d been sending soldiers and maintenance men into the tunnels after intruders who had sabotaged the infrastructure. Hopefully, the magistrate’s people would find their wayward archaeologists while they were down there.
Malek and Stone Heart were riveting as they tried their best to slay each other, mixing sword attacks with magical ones. As blasts of energy ricocheted off their personal shields, they smashed into the ship all around them. The mages on the craft, clearly intimidated by the two zidarr in their midst, were staying out of the fight, even though it was undermining their ability to protect their vessel. Their shields were meant to defend it from outside attacks, not those coming from their own deck. Since it was one of Zaruk’s ships, Uthari hardly cared. Let them crash it, so long as Malek got off first.
He adjusted the viewer to see the area around that battle, hoping no other ships from Zaruk’s fleet were flying in close to assist Stone Heart. He paused, frowning at one of Queen Vorsha’s mageships. It was crashed in the park beside the docks and appeared out of commission, but he surveyed the deck, checking for enemies who might open fire on Malek. Dense black smoke made it hard to see, but his senses told him people were alive in the cabins and belowdecks.
A number of magical devices were also still operable on the ship. There was nothing wrong with the engine or power source. Strange that the crew hadn’t tried to fly the ship away. It wasn’t as if hull integrity mattered overmuch with a magical airship. Was it possible this was some ruse? He squinted through the cloudy gloom and thought again of the intruders that had been reported knocking out power in the tunnels under the city. Maybe they weren’t merely trying to damage the infrastructure. Maybe they were sneaking in to—
“Get my portal,” he growled. “The bastards.”
He’d known that was their objective. He’d just assumed they would come in mageships from above. What did they intend to do? Fold it so they could sneak it out through the tunnels?
“Idiots.”
As Uthari further scoured the suspiciously crashed ship, an exotic piece of magic tickled his senses. An exotic but familiar piece of magic. It had the same signature as the dragon steel of the portal.
“The key,” he breathed. “They brought it here?”
Uthari was about to order a platoon of soldiers to storm that ship and search the hands for the key when he sensed Yidar approaching his suite. What did he want now?
Yidar had a great deal of potential, but he spoke too much and had too many ambitions. More than once, he had hinted that he intended to prove himself and one day earn Malek’s place as Uthari’s first zidarr. A lot would have to change for that to happen. Uthari trusted Malek above all others. He made a mental note to warn Malek to watch his back.
As soon as Yidar entered, Uthari sensed that something was wrong. The young zidarr moved with his usual easy, athletic gait, no hesitancy about him, but something about him—about the magical energy he projected—twanged at Uthari’s senses. After all these years, Uthari trusted his instincts. Yidar was up to something, possibly a betrayal. At the least, some plot to further his ambitions. Did he have plans to get rid of Malek? He wouldn’t dare move against Uthari, would he?
Though he no longer wore weapons, at least when he was within his own suite, Uthari could take care of himself. If need be, he could make an energy lance to defend himself against blades that might be capable of slicing through a personal shield.
As Yidar approached, Uthari clasped his hands behind his back, keeping his attention on the viewer. Instead of speaking, he waited for the impatience of youth to betray itself.
“Your Majesty, I’ve checked on the artifact again. It is undisturbed, and the guards remain in place in the courtyard.” Yidar’s voice didn’t hold the bored tones that it had earlier in the evening when he’d been pleading to be permitted to go out and join the battle. Actually, he’d been pleading for him and Malek to go out. And if not himself, then at least Malek, so he could use his skills where they were needed most.
Belatedly, Uthari realized he’d done exactly what Yidar had asked. He’d forgotten that Yidar had made the request. When more ships than his intelligence people had led him to believe were coming had shown up, Uthari had sent Malek out to help Gorsith. It had been the logical action since the power of a zidarr could turn the tide of a battle, and Malek was the best.
“Thank you, Yidar,” Uthari said.
Yidar glanced toward a corner of the office, one with a table that held the generator carved from purple dylorian crystal that Uthari had long ago imbued with enough power to maintain the shield around the castle. It was separate from the city’s defense grid. As always, it hummed softly with power, proof that it was working.
Uthari eyed Yidar, but not before the younger man returned his gaze to the viewer on the wall, as if he’d never looked anywhere else. “Stone Heart has come? Zaruk has sent everything he’s got, hasn’t he?”
“So it would seem.”
“All that for some ancient artifact?”
“So it would seem,” Uthari repeated. “No doubt it is only an excuse for the war that Queen Vorsha has longed for for decades. She saw the opportunity to turn Zaruk into an ally, Zaruk who once studied with me and has been an ally more often than an enemy in the past.”
“He must truly want the artifact.”
“If that were true, he would have been searching for it. He is surprisingly disgruntled, considering he did not know it existed a week ago.”
“Is it true that it can open a portal to the world where dragons live?” Yidar asked the question casually, as if he cared little about the answer, but Uthari sensed this was at the heart of what had brought him here and debated if he should answer.
“Who told you that?” Uthari asked equally casually. He’d asked Malek to do this research in secret.
“I saw some of Malek’s notes. He’d surmised that humans wanted it so they could go to the dragon realm and, if they still exist, bring them back as allies for a war they would launch against us. If there is truly evidence to support that dragons still live, and they could be won as allies, one would think a king could also reach out to them. If such powerful creatures were won to his side, it would ensure that nobody dared plot against him. He might even use them to take over the other kingdoms and unite the world under one ruler.” Yidar grew a little breathless as he rapidly laid out the scenario. He caught himself and shrugged as if indifferent. “I presume that is why you want the portal.”
Uthari squinted at him, surprised he was admitting to reading Malek’s notes, notes that Uthari had little doubt hadn’t been carelessly left out for anyone to find. Yidar must have sneaked into his room when Malek was off on a mission and rooted around until he found the research.
Maybe Yidar sensed Uthari’s suspicions for he waved at the viewer and changed the subject. “Stone Heart is older than Malek and very powerful. Do you believe Malek will win?”
“Yes. When did you read Malek’s notes?” Uthari wouldn’t allow himself to be diverted. He lowered his voice to add in a dangerous tone, “And for whom?”
Instead of answering, Yidar squinted in concentration. Uthari braced himself to defend against a magical attack, but Yidar was still focused on the viewer.
Stone Heart succeeded in knocking Malek back, his main-gauche flying from his hand, and Uthari’s breath caught. He wouldn’t have expected his first zidarr to be disarmed.
Yidar watched intently, and Uthari wondered if he was trying to manipulate the battle from here, over a mile away. Just in case, Uthari channeled some of his own energy across the void, reinforcing Malek’s shield before Stone Heart could rush in to take advantage. Uthari spotted several of Zaruk’s mages creeping in to help Stone Heart and launched a mental attack at them. They jerked, lifting their hands to their heads, losing their ability to use magic of their own.
Yidar spun, pulling out a magical dagger, and hefted it to throw.
Uthari’s attention snapped back to the office, and he lifted a barrier more impervious than diamond all around himself. But he wasn’t Yidar’s target. The dagger sped across the room and slammed point first into the shield generator. Purple lightning branched from it, and its power disappeared. Uthari gaped, sensing the shield that protected the castle disappearing. With the city’s shield still down, that left them defenseless.
Uthari whirled as he raised his personal defenses, expecting Yidar to attack him next. He wasn’t wrong. A rush of power battered at his shields, and Yidar lunged in with another blade—his magical zidarr short sword. Surprisingly, he didn’t aim for Uthari’s heart but for his thigh, as if he only wanted to put him out of commission.
It didn’t matter, for Uthari’s shield, practiced and refined countless times over the centuries, halted the blade as surely as dragon steel.
“What have you done?” Uthari demanded, hurling an attack of his own, though he couldn’t put everything behind it, not when this was one of his zidarr, fostered and trained since boyhood to serve the kingdom.
Yidar stumbled back under the assault, but his own defenses protected him from the brunt of it.
“Why would you leave our people defenseless?” Uthari added.
“You’ll protect them. They’ll be fine.” Yidar glanced toward the window, toward a mageship taking the opportunity to fly close to the castle. It wasn’t from the enemy fleet; its hull was black with red trim—Uthari’s colors. “But the portal will be mine.”
“You didn’t know it existed a week ago. Why do you care?”
Was that ship coming to help Yidar steal the artifact? Fury erupted in Uthari’s chest, replacing the shock and betrayal, and he launched another attack.
His magic overwhelmed Yidar’s defenses, and the zidarr staggered back, almost dropping to a knee. But Yidar found some reserves and maintained his shield. He threw something at the floor, an explosive that boomed, flashing white and filling the air with smoke. As if he expected such an amateur tactic to distract Uthari, Yidar followed it with a blast of his own power and several rapid slashes from his sword. Did he expect to cut through?
Uthari shook his head, wrinkling his nose at the smoke in the air, and prepared to restrain his wayward zidarr with magical bonds.
But the door flew open, distracting him more than the explosive had.
“Your Majesty,” one of his officers blurted. “The castle shield is down, and mageships are encroaching on our position.”
Yidar threw another wave of power at Uthari, then raced around him, his blade raised. Uthari ignored the officer and turned, expecting an attack from behind. But Yidar kept going and sprang for the window, his magical sword shattering the enchanted glass. He leaped out onto the rooftop below and ran, no doubt to get to the courtyard and the portal.
Though he was still puzzled about why Yidar wanted it, Uthari reacted quickly. He crunched across the glass on the marble floor in time to wrap his power around Yidar as he tried to leap off the roof. Coils of magic ensnared him in midair. Uthari squeezed his fist, willing his power to squeeze Yidar. Guards in the courtyard looked up and raised their firearms, pointing them uncertainly toward the zidarr.
Yidar screamed as power crushed him. He launched a mental attack, but Uthari deflected it, the shields around his mind as solid as those that guarded his body.
The price for betrayal was death. It was stated no fewer than ten times in the Zidarr Code. As he squeezed tighter, Yidar crying out, Uthari could have crushed every organ and bone in his body. But he was reluctant to kill the man he’d trained from boyhood. Even if Yidar was no Malek, and not even as dependable as Gorsith, didn’t he deserve to be heard? At the least, Uthari wanted to question him and find out what his plans had been—and who else he’d suborned into helping him. Also he wanted, if not to give Yidar a second chance, to understand.
“Get every available mage out to raise personal shields to protect us until I can repair the crystal,” Uthari told his officer as he concentrated on restraining the still struggling Yidar. “Everyone wants the artifact, but nobody will take it from me.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
Uthari reeled Yidar back toward his broken window like a fish on a line. There wasn’t time to ask the questions he wished answered now, but there were cells in the castle that could hold even a zidarr. Yidar was about to find out what it was like to spend time in one—and if the city was destroyed because of his betrayal, he could plummet to the earth below, the same as everyone else living here.
Chapter 28
28
Lieutenant Sasko joined Ferroki in the navigation cabin, her eyes watering and lungs raw from the smoke outside. The deck was tilted so far sideways that she had to grab the beams on the low ceiling to keep from falling over. The mageship’s crash landing had been convincing. At least she believed so. And the guards in the tower also believed so—or they were too busy watching the zidarr battle on the other mageship to worry about the Dauntless. She peered through a window, but the wind had shifted, and the smoke kept her from seeing if it was still going on.
The young helmsman who’d been responsible for the crash was frowning over the instrumentation. The wheel, altitude lever, and various gauges appeared undamaged, but a pulsing magical doodad that probably powered something important was cracked and smoking.
“I think we have a replacement orboxitor,” he said, then flung himself down to the deck to open cabinets under the wheel.
“Good,” Ferroki said. “We need to get this ship ready to lift off again. It’ll take Sorath some time to find the artifact, but if we’re not ready to pick him up when he signals us, the whole mission could fail.”
“Dr. Fret is keeping the noxious fire going,” Sasko reported. “The rest of the mercenaries are putting out the fires in the back and patching up anything that’s crucial for flying. I told them to be quiet and stay belowdecks as much as possible so the guards don’t have a reason to pay attention to us.”
“I doubt we’ll be that lucky.” Ferroki glanced out the windows, several of them cracked. It was still raining, and the rain beaded up along the cracks and dripped into the interior. “They were on the way over here when they spotted our incursion team.”
The cabin’s hatch opened, bringing smoke inside along with the very angry Captain Toggs.
“Nobber,” he growled. “You idiot. That was on purpose, wasn’t it? You crashed because that ludicrous mercenary told you to.”
“Uh.” From his hands and knees, the helmsman looked hopefully at Ferroki and Sasko, as if they could help him.
“He’s not your commander. I am.” Toggs thumped his chest, then stretched his hand toward the helmsman.
Pulses of crackling energy shot from his fingertips and slammed into the young officer, knocking him away from the cabinet he’d been opening. He curled into a ball on the deck as the captain’s magic pummeled him.
Ferroki lifted a hand, as if to grab his arm and try to stop him, but Toggs glared icicles at her.
“We need to get the ship repaired, Captain,” Ferroki told him calmly. “He who saves the fox hunt until after the eggs have been collected from the coop and stored safely in the farmhouse is less likely to lose his breakfast.”
Sasko eyed the mage captain, wondering if he was a fan of fables or would think Ferroki a kook that he should ignore. Or zap with magic.
Nobber writhed on the deck, gasping as he squinted his eyes shut, his legs twitching and fingers spasming. Even though Sasko preferred to leave mages to handle their disputes between themselves, she felt sorry for the kid and wished she could help. The urge to crack Toggs on the back of the head while he wasn’t looking came to her, but then she might end up on the deck writhing beside the helmsman.
It wasn’t Ferroki’s words but the sound of something slamming down outside of the navigation cabin that made Toggs release his officer. He frowned through the hatchway and stepped outside.
Ferroki rushed to help Nobber to a sitting position. His hair was sticking out in a thousand directions and his fingertips were blackened. He wobbled, blinking uncertainly—or was that spastically? Maybe his eyelids weren’t working right now.
“Can you go back to repairs?” Ferroki asked him gently. “We’ll try to distract your captain.”
“I—I’ll t-t-try,” he stuttered.
“Zidarr Stone Heart?” Toggs asked, only a step outside the hatchway.
Remembering the fight they’d been witnessing, Sasko peered past him. The white-haired zidarr who’d almost killed Sorath in the transport vessel was sprawled on his back on the deck, as if he’d fallen there from a great height.
Sasko stepped outside and twisted her head to peer up at the sky. That was exactly what had happened.
The mageship that he and the zidarr Malek had been fighting on had disappeared. Had it been so damaged that it lost its power and crashed out of the sky? She didn’t see the blue hull of Zaruk’s craft anywhere, but the other mageship, the Star Flyer, was still up there. Someone had thrown a rope over the side, and Malek was hanging on to the end, swaying with its movement as he looked down at Stone Heart.
Toggs didn’t see that. He was creeping toward the zidarr, a hand raised, as if he wasn’t sure if Stone Heart was dead or would leap up at any moment, striking down anyone nearby.
Malek started climbing up the rope to his ship. A uniformed officer came to the railing and looked down at him. Sasko had seen General Tonovan a few times and recognized him.
A groan came from Stone Heart.
Toggs rushed to his side. “My lord, do you need help?”
“Yes.” Stone Heart’s eyes fluttered open. “I need someone to kill that asshole,” he snarled, pain lancing his voice.
“Thought he was supposed to handle that,” Sasko muttered.
Stone Heart rolled into a sitting position and glared up at the Star Flyer—Malek was almost up to the railing, and the craft was coming about.
He swore. “They’re going to come try to finish me off.” He glanced around at Sasko as well as Toggs. “And he’ll blast this ship to pieces to do it. Is Sorath here? This is the ship on the incursion mission, isn’t it?” He gaped through the smoke toward the watchtowers. “Are we on the ground?”
“The grass next to the city docks,” Toggs said. “It was Sorath’s idiotic idea.”
“Crashing?”
“Pretending to crash. But we’ve taken so much damage that—”
“Every- everything’s b-b-back powered up,” came Nobber’s call from behind Sasko. “Tell the captain.”
As Stone Heart struggled to rise the rest of the way—Toggs didn’t look like he dared offer help—the ship carrying Malek flew closer.
“Do we get out of here before he arrives or keep playing dead and hope they don’t obliterate us?” Sasko asked, glancing at Nobber and Ferroki.
“Even if we managed to get in the air,” Ferroki said, “there’s not time to get out of here. They would pin us against the city walls.”
“Mages, defend the ship,” Toggs bellowed.
His crew had been swift to react in their earlier battles, but they glanced uncertainly at each other and at the Star Flyer’s approach. Malek had made it to the deck and stood by the railing with his glowing sword in hand as his ship carried him closer.
Stone Heart staggered to his feet, his face twisted with pain. He must have fallen more than fifty feet. No normal human could have survived that. He was lucky he hadn’t missed the peninsula altogether and plummeted thousands of feet. That would have killed even a mage.
The Star Flyer fired weapons at them. Their mages had gathered and raised a barrier around the Dauntless, but the long looks they exchanged with each other suggested they believed they were doomed.
Booms came from the castle walls—the men in the watchtowers had realized the crashed ship had people on it and was worth targeting.
“We may have to surrender,” Ferroki said. “This won’t end well.”
Toggs glared over at her. “We have a mission. The king ordered us to get that artifact, and we will.” He coughed, the wind shifting and blowing the smoke across their deck, then wiped his eyes. “Our people don’t surrender.”
“Mercenaries do,” Sasko muttered.
She didn’t like it, but they got paid to fight, not to die, and none of them cared one way or another which king ended up with the damn artifact.
“I don’t think anyone is going to give us a chance to surrender.” Ferroki found a spot where she could fire from cover and aimed her magelock at Malek. With both ships shielded, there was no point in shooting, but she would wait for her chance.
Reluctantly, Sasko joined her.
“Uhm,” Nobber said, left alone in navigation. “Do we lift off? Or…?”
Magical attacks assaulted them from both sides, flashing as the energy blasts struck their barrier. One of the mages keeping those defenses up crumpled to the deck.
“Lieutenant Maskert,” Toggs yelled, his arms raised as he presumably contributed to the defenses, “get back to your feet and help out.”
The mage had passed out and didn’t hear him. Stone Heart staggered back, his own hands thrust outward toward Malek. Were they still trading blows? Mental attacks instead of physical ones?
Sasko aimed at Malek, itching to squeeze the trigger, waiting for someone to let her know when she could fire. Stone Heart dropped to one knee, his face tense with concentration and pain.
Abruptly, Malek’s ship stopped attacking. Two big blue mageships flew out of the clouds on the other side of the Star Flyer. More of Zaruk’s people. One ship opened up on the Star Flyer and one fired at the watchtowers, at the guards who’d been targeting the Dauntless.
“Scoot us out of here,” Ferroki yelled through the hatchway to Nobber. “Don’t go straight up, or we’ll be in the line of fire, and don’t go down, since those other ships may still be skulking under the city. Try to take us horizontally out of here. Make it look like we’re fleeing and not coming back.”
“Can we flee and not come back?” Sasko asked wistfully while keeping Malek in her sights.
He was still focused on Stone Heart, barely aware that his ship was shifting its attack to the vessels on the other side, the ones actually firing back. Stone Heart kept glowering at him, his lips twisting and flexing as he concentrated on whatever magic he could send through defensive barriers. Malek’s frosty face didn’t show as much emotion.
The smoke coming from the hole in the Dauntless’s hull increased, as if the fire had spread. Even though Sasko knew it should only be the carefully controlled blaze that Tinder had built in a metal barrel and that Fret was monitoring, she worried that it had escaped and was burning everything belowdecks. The smoke increased so much that she could no longer see Malek’s ship, or even the city wall and watchtowers.
A wrenching noise came from below and reverberated through the ship as it attempted to ease away from its crash site. Sasko winced, afraid the guards would hear the noise and resume their attack, but they were busy fending off the onslaught from the new ship. A couple of brown-hulled vessels lurked farther out in the clouds, cannons firing over their ally ships and toward the city.
One slammed into the wall, knocking a crenellation off the top. That startled Sasko—it was the first weapon she’d seen get through the city’s defenses and damage anything.
A cheer went up on King Zaruk’s ships, and more cannons opened up.
Malek flung a final attack toward Stone Heart that knocked him on his back even though the Dauntless’s defenses were still up, but then turned his attention toward the new arrivals. He and the other mages on the Star Flyer focused further attacks on the vessels firing at the city.
Toggs helped Stone Heart get to his feet. “The city defenses are down.”
“Then fire at them.” Stone Heart raised his voice to repeat the order to the mages on the deck.
“No,” Ferroki said. “This is our chance to sneak out of sight, recover, and wait for Sorath’s signal.”
“To Hell with his signal.” Stone Heart strode into navigation, limping but not slowing down. “If their defenses are down, we can fly in and get that artifact without him.”
Sasko doubted it would be that easy. Ferroki also shook her head, but Stone Heart had taken command of their ship, and he ignored them.
“Go check on Fret,” Ferroki told Sasko. “Make sure we aren’t burning down from the inside out while we attempt this.”
Sasko nodded but before leaving asked, “Think we can get in there and get it without Sorath’s help?”
“I’m not sure we can get it even with his help. There’s also the possibility that this is a ruse, that Uthari or whoever is in charge of the city defenses is letting us believe they’re more damaged than they are.”
“Why would they do that?”
“To get us inside the city, raise their defenses again, and trap us?”
Sasko frowned. “And why would they do that?”
Ferroki slid a hand in her pocket and held up the medallion. “We have something they want, don’t forget.”
“I was hoping they didn’t know that.”
“It’s possible they don’t. But I wouldn’t count on it.” Ferroki returned it to her pocket before Stone Heart glanced back at them.
Sasko left navigation, wishing she were far away from here and wondering if she would survive this mission.
Tezi lacked the strength to hurl rubble off piles, so she ended up shoulder to shoulder with Colonel Sorath, facing down the tunnel toward the last intersection as the city defenders encroached, their angry voices echoing off the walls. There was nothing to hide behind, so she hoped the others cleared the rockfall before their enemies showed up. But the voices rang out clearly now, so she doubted they had much time.
“Take a couple of the pop-bangs out of my pocket, killer.” Sorath stood with his pistol pointed down the tunnel and his pickaxe hand up in case someone made it within melee range. “Throw them as soon as those mages poke their heads into the intersection up there.”
“Yes, sir.” Tezi felt weird sticking her fingers in his pocket, but it wasn’t as if he had a free hand to grab them for her. She withdrew three smooth spheres and juggled them awkwardly in her left hand until she found a grip that still let her support her rifle. “Will these keep them from using their magic on us?”
“Probably not, but they can be distracting to mages, especially less-experienced ones. They’ve probably got their best people defending the castle walls, especially now that it sounds like the city shield is down.”
Another boom erupted nearby, the tunnels quaking. The shield was definitely down.
The voices stopped, aside from an uncertain squawk as pieces of the ceiling clattered down. Behind Tezi, even more rocks thudded and clattered as the rest of the team worked on clearing the way. The professor and her son crouched between Tezi and Sorath and the others, looking like they wished they could disappear into the new cracks in the tunnel walls. Tezi wished she could think of something comforting to say to them. These last few days couldn’t have been pleasant for them, not as King Uthari’s prisoners. Not as Malek’s prisoners.
A woman in a red uniform stuck her head around the corner and threw something. Tezi fired at her, afraid it was an explosive. At the same time, Sorath’s black-powder pistol cracked in her ear. Tezi’s charge caught the woman’s shoulder as she leaned back, and she cried out, but if she fell, it was out of sight. Sorath’s bullet slammed into the projectile—something similar to one of Tinder’s grenades—and it exploded twenty feet from them.
The blast brought down a portion of the ceiling and blew holes in the walls. It also roared down the tunnel at them, wind knocking Tezi back several steps. Sorath spun, catching her under the armpit with his pick before she could fall over the professor.
“Thanks,” she mumbled, embarrassed by her scrawniness, since it meant power could easily toss her about. At least she’d kept hold of her weapon. She hurried to get back into position beside Sorath and aim it in the right direction. He’d returned instantly to his position, his pistol aimed at the intersection. “I’m sorry you’re stuck with me.”
He glanced at her. “Is there someone else I should be stuck with?”
“The others are more experienced and stronger.”
“Experience comes with time. You’ll get it too one day.”
“I know. I’m just… never mind.” This wasn’t the time to complain that the unit didn’t seem to find her that useful. They’d invited her to sit with them on the way over. That was enough.
“You thought quickly and made the shot. You’re doing fine, killer. Do you want to follow a crazy man down a tunnel?”
“Is that rhetorical? Or do you mean now?”
“Rhetorical is a good word. I’ll use it in my memoir.” He winked at her. “But I mean now. They’re right around the corner plotting something.” He pointed at her hand. She still held the little spheres. Dropping his voice to a whisper, he said, “Cover me.”
Keeping his weapon raised, he trotted soundlessly down the tunnel.
Tezi realized he meant to crash their party. Did he even know how many were lurking around the corner? She gripped her magelock and one of the spheres and hurried after him.
Someone else leaned around the corner, a male mage this time, with his hand raised to throw another explosive. His eyes widened in surprise as Sorath charged at him, firing before he could throw. The blast hit his wrist, and the explosive tumbled to the floor. As it detonated, Sorath turned his shoulder and raised his arm to protect his face. Before the smoke had cleared and the rubble had stopped falling, he holstered his firearm, drew a short sword, and charged around the corner.
Clashes and thuds erupted as he attacked.
“Get him!” someone cried. “Shoot!”
Instinct told Tezi to be careful about charging blindly around the corner, but she had to help him as much as she could. If he died after telling her to cover him, the others would never forget it. She would never forget it.
She crouched low and pointed her weapon around the corner, gulping at the eight mages facing Sorath. One of his explosives hit the ground between them, startling a few in the back as he slashed and cut with his weapons. Someone aimed a magelock at him, but he anticipated it and twisted, pressing his back to the wall in time for the charge to whiz harmlessly past.
It almost shaved Tezi’s eyebrows off as it zipped into the intersection, but she didn’t let it scare her into retreating. She used the opening to fire at one of the mages closest to her.
The uniformed man had been focused on Sorath and didn’t have his defenses up. Her charge struck him in the side, hurling him back into one of his allies. She got off two more shots before the mages realized she was there and they had to split their attention.
Sorath rammed one of his enemies into a wall before the man could fire at Tezi, but one in the back shot over their heads and almost got her. With her heart pounding, she jerked back around the corner. She longed to plaster her back to the wall and stay there, but with Sorath fighting fearlessly in the midst of so many enemies, she couldn’t. She made herself lean around the corner and fire again.
Several of their enemies lay bloody and unmoving on the ground, and one had even been decapitated. But Sorath still had a lot to handle. One gripped him in a magical hold, but he managed to drop another of his spheres. The boom startled the mage just enough for Sorath to pull free, grab him, and slam his pickaxe into his chest.
Tezi ignored the sickening crunch of bone and fired again, picking her target carefully in the confusing morass of battle. This time, the mages were expecting it, and her charges ricocheted off their defenses. One almost struck Sorath, and she gulped. If he were killed by friendly fire, it would be even worse than being slain by enemies.
Remembering the spheres, she threw one over the heads of everyone to land behind the mages at the back of the group. It blew at the same time as another explosive hit the city from above. The tunnel quaked as smoke filled the area, and two of the mages toward the front jerked their arms up, using magic to shield their heads in case a rockfall tumbled down.
But their deaths came from another direction as Sorath plowed into them, using the distraction to his advantage. He cracked the two mages in the skulls with his deadly pickaxe.
As he closed on those in the rear of the group, a mage who had only been stunned and not killed pushed to his knees and hurled power at Sorath’s back. Sorath stumbled and pitched against a wall.
Tezi fired, shooting his attacker in the back. His defenses weren’t up, and the blow knocked him face-first into the grating. Sorath whirled and finished him off with another mighty chop from his pickaxe.
Tezi grimaced at the crunch of it breaking the mage’s spine, but he’d been the last of their enemies, at least for the moment, so they had a reprieve. She leaned back around the corner and slumped against the wall. Her legs were rubbery, and she was tempted to let them give way and sit for a moment, but Sergeant Tinder appeared beside her. She locked her knees and feigned nonchalance at the battle.
“There’s a law among mercenaries that you better learn,” Tinder said as Sorath walked back around the corner, blood dripping from a dozen cuts on his face but no worse wounds bothering him.
“Yes, Sergeant?” Tezi braced herself for a reprimand. She thought she’d done all right, but maybe Tinder had seen her firing from the cover of the corner and thought it cowardly, especially when Sorath had charged right into the fray.
“Never run into battle with someone crazier than you are,” Tinder said.
Tezi blinked and looked at Sorath.
“Really, Sergeant,” he drawled. “Nobody would ever watch my back if they followed that rule.”
“That would be a shame.” Tinder grabbed Tezi and tugged her back toward the rockfall. “Don’t get our rookie killed. We like the way she sucks up to the captain.”
Tezi’s cheeks warmed. Why was she saying that in front of the colonel?
“All mercenaries suck up to their commanders.” Sorath wiped the blood off his pickaxe and sword and followed them. “That’s how a hierarchical system works.”
The rockfall had been cleared enough that the team could scramble over the top and down the other side.
“Those with dignity,” Tinder said with a sniff, “don’t deign to sucking.”
Sorath nudged Tezi with his elbow. “She’s the one who was getting a little yellow yarn bag with tassels made for her ammo earlier, right?”
Tinder leveled a dark look over her shoulder at them.
“Yes.” Tezi managed a smile. “But I think they were dignified tassels.”
“Oh, I’m sure.”
Chapter 29
29
“There are people up there waiting,” one of the mages said.
They’d reached the rungs up to the library, the shaft dark, meaning the hidden door at the top was shut. Jak didn’t hear any noises coming from above, but he didn’t doubt that a mage could sense castle guards stationed to defend the entrance. He and his mother stood with their backs against the wall at the bottom of the shaft, trying to stay out of the way.
“I’m sure Altrucia wasn’t the only one who knew about this door,” he said.
“Who?” a mercenary asked.
“The woman who helped us escape. We, uh, stepped over her body earlier.”
“Huh.”
“If she helped you, I’m sorry she died,” Tezi said quietly.
It was the first time she’d spoken directly to Jak and made eye contact. He wished he were less sweaty and bedraggled, and that they weren’t in the middle of a city being bombed. Chatting with her over coffee at the cafe by the horticulture department’s gardens on campus would have been much nicer.
“She tried to turn us over to the dead mage we also stepped over,” Jak said, “so I wasn’t that attached.”
“Oh.” Her forehead wrinkled. Maybe he shouldn’t have been flippant. But if he started acknowledging emotions and how he was feeling about the night—the deaths they’d seen and the mage his mother had killed—he might collapse in a weepy mess. That rarely impressed girls. Even his mother was frowning at him.
“Sorry,” he muttered, not sure if that was the correct response, but it rarely hurt.
“How many people are up there?” Sorath had climbed last over the rubble pile, making sure no more mages were coming from behind. He straightened his uniform and brushed off pulverized rock as he joined them.
“It’s hard to tell for sure, sir, but at least twenty.” It was strange hearing a mage call a terrene human sir, but the five magic users detached to the incursion unit must have accepted Sorath as their boss.
“All mages, I suppose,” Sorath said.
“Most of the populace of the city, except for the servants, are mages.”
“No chance servants are guarding the library?” one of the mercenaries asked wistfully.
“Don’t worry,” the one who’d introduced herself as Sergeant Tinder said. “We’ll send Colonel Sorath in first. He likes charging a room.”
“Charging tunnels is doable. Rooms, especially library-sized rooms, aren’t so appealing. There’s too much space for people to flank you. You have to move fast.”
“You seem decent at that.”
Sorath shook his head but reached for the rungs to go first. “Just charge up after me. Someone bring grenades.”
“I’ve always got grenades.” Tinder patted an oversized ammo pouch clasped to her belt.
“You’re not going to throw explosives in a library are you?” Mother asked.
“It’s the only way to have a chance against mages.” Sorath climbed to the top, his pickaxe clinking as he hooked it on the rungs.
“The city is being bombed anyway, Mother,” Jak pointed out.
“I realize that, but destroying books… seems sacrilegious.”
“Only if they’re sacred books.”
“All books should be revered.”
“Quiet down there.” Sorath grunted as he pushed the lever to open the door. No light seeped in. Were the mages waiting in the dark to surprise them? “And put out the light.”
“I’m not certain I like him,” Mother murmured as their mages made their magical illumination disappear, leaving the tunnel in darkness.
“Because he’s ordering us around?” Jak murmured back. “Or because he’s going to blow up books?”
“The latter is more egregious, though you know how I feel about the former.”
The mercenaries brushed past them to climb up after their leader. Sorath hadn’t made a sound, and Jak wasn’t sure he’d stepped off the ladder until shouts came from the library, echoing oddly down their shaft, and the first explosion went off.
“Wait for us to handle it,” one of the mages said, patting Jak clumsily on the shoulder in the dark, then climbing past him.
“Gladly.” Jak leaned his head back against the cool wall, shivering at the drafts that whispered in from the destroyed portions of the tunnel.
He tried to listen for more mages coming after them from that direction, but it was hard to hear anything over the clamor of the battle that raged up above. It sounded like entire armies clashing, not a ten-man squad of mercenaries against however many were defending the library. Maybe there was an army up there.
Mother must have also worried that the sheer number of weapons firing, explosives detonating, and battle cries sounding meant that their team was overwhelmed, because she asked, “What are we going to do if they don’t survive?”
Jak had no idea. If the mercenaries lost, would the castle defenders close the hidden door and deem their duty completed? Or would they come down here to see if anyone was lurking in the tunnel?
“You’re older and wiser,” he said. “You’re supposed to know.”
“I’m afraid I haven’t had answers since this all started.”
“With the defenses down, maybe there’s a chance the portal really can be taken. Even if this team fails… it sounded like the crew of their ship would be along to try to get it.”
“I doubt they can get it without the mercenaries distracting the mages that will be guarding it in the courtyard.”
A more distant explosion sounded, and the tunnels shivered in sympathy. Jak almost asked how much damage one of these floating cities could take before it fell out of the sky, but he didn’t want to know.
As the battle continued in the library, the hairs on the back of his neck rose. The faintest scraping sound came from the tunnel, back where the rockfall was. In the pitch darkness, he couldn’t see if anyone was coming. The noise was so soft that it might have been made by a rat, but why would a rat be roaming around in the middle of a bombing?
Jak pointed his magelock in that direction and squeezed his mother’s shoulder to warn her that he was stepping past her. Maybe she also sensed something, for she didn’t ask what he was doing.
Seconds passed, and he didn’t hear another noise, but his sixth sense told him that someone was coming. Should he shoot into the dark and hope to get lucky? What if it was an ally instead of an enemy?
He almost snorted. What ally? He and Mother didn’t have any allies here. Even the mercenaries would turn on them if someone paid them to.
Something seemed to stir in the darkness. Maybe it was his imagination, but… he fired.
Blue light flashed as the charge sped from his magelock. It only lasted a split second, but that was enough to see the face of an armed man in Uthari’s red uniform approaching with a sword raised. The charge slammed into his chest, and he flew backward, crashing into someone else who’d come over the rockfall after him. The man Jak had hit dropped to the ground.
Jak fired again, panic welling up as he realized the situation was even worse than he’d feared. The second uniformed man wasn’t caught off guard and twisted to the side before the charge hit him. It struck the rock pile behind him. Jak shifted his aim to fire again, but the man moved too quickly. He rushed Jak, slamming him against the wall and clamping down on his wrist with an iron grip. He smashed Jak’s hand against the hard wall until he dropped the magelock.
In the dark, Jak heard rather than saw the man drawing a dagger, the faint whisper of it leaving its sheath. Before the blade could slice into Jak, the man jerked away, releasing him as he gasped. A droplet of fire struck Jak’s cheek. Mother must have thrown one of her vials.
Jak squatted down, patting around for the magelock he’d dropped. But another weapon buzzed right beside him, and blue light flashed in the tunnel again, highlighting the man as he flew backward. Mother stood with the fallen magelock in hand, her eyes grim, her jaw set. That was the image of her that was burned into Jak’s mind as the light from the charge faded.
“Thanks, Mother,” he whispered, shaking out his hand. It hurt from being slammed against the wall, but it could have been much worse.
“You’re welcome. We’d better go up. There could be more coming.” She patted around in the dark, found him, and hugged him fiercely before pushing the weapon back into his hand. “There are only a couple of charges left. And that was my last vial.”
“I’m glad you put it to good use.” Jak rubbed his cheek where the droplet of acid had splattered him, then followed the wall to the rungs.
“I almost grabbed the one with the sample in it.”
“That might not have been as effective.” His cheek would burn for a while, but he didn’t complain. He was still alive. “Going up.”
Jak climbed carefully and slowly, listening for more intruders and trying to figure out which way the battle above had gone. The sounds of weapons clashing and grenades exploding had stopped, but he didn’t hear any voices that would have let him identify the winners. The possibility that he was climbing up into the arms of waiting castle guards weighed on him with each rung he ascended.
At the top, he felt around until he found the back of the bookcase. It was only ajar a few inches, and he peered through before pushing it open further.
There was some light, the yellow of lanterns burning near the library’s entrance, but nothing was lit in this aisle under the mezzanine. He could barely see two bodies on the floor several feet away. Mercenaries? Guards? The dim lighting made it impossible to make out the details of their clothing.
Beyond the end of the aisle, books, pieces of cases and shelves, and shards of marble tile lay scattered across the floor. The entire library hadn’t been destroyed, but it had taken damage. Mother wouldn’t be pleased. As much as he liked books, Jak was more concerned about the blood spattering the floor. Whose people did it belong to?
Faint rustling and low voices came from the direction of the entrance, but Jak couldn’t see the speakers through the bookcase. He wanted to wait until someone stepped into view, so he would know whose side had won, but Mother tapped his ankle.
“More people are climbing over the rock pile,” she whispered up.
There would be no waiting. Jak pushed the hidden door open enough to clamber out. He crouched, the nearly spent magelock in hand, until Mother made it out behind him. They closed the door and crept toward the bodies. Identifying them should tell them who won before they committed to leaving the aisle.
But when they reached the bodies and could see well enough to discern uniforms, his heart sank. One wore Uthari’s colors, but the other was one of their mages—the one who’d patted him on the shoulder and offered encouragement.
A boom rang out, startling him. It wasn’t another explosion, but it echoed almost as loudly through the library, especially when a second and third boom followed.
“That sounds like a battering ram,” Mother breathed.
“Why would mages need a battering ram?” Jak eased past the bodies toward the end of the aisles.
He breathed a sigh of relief when he spotted his blonde friend—admittedly, Tezi had only spoken to him once and might not consider him a friend—behind an upturned table, her long rifle balanced on the edge as she pointed it at the closed double doors. The body of a red-uniformed guard lay a few feet behind her. Numerous guards were on the floor, all dead or unconscious. Jak didn’t see any more mercenaries among them and was amazed Sorath’s team was faring as well as it was. Though there were fewer guards than Jak had expected. Uthari’s forces had to be split, their focus in a dozen directions.
Another bam sounded as something struck the doors, the stout wood quivering only faintly. The rest of the mercenary team was fanned out with their weapons pointed at the doors, using whatever they could find for cover. Only Sorath crouched out in the open, a couple of his spheres in hand and ready to throw. Clearly, he meant to charge whoever came in.
“There’s a lot of magic in those doors,” one of the team’s mages whispered.
“Will they hold?” Sorath looked over at Jak and Mother, though they hadn’t made a sound. He raised his pickaxe weapon.
Jak hoped that gesture meant stay where you are, not come out and join us in battle. If he could find a way to help without flinging himself into danger, he would, but he’d had enough battles for the night.
“Not indefinitely,” the mage said.
“Should we charge out to meet them?” Sergeant Tinder hefted one of her explosives.
“There are a lot more guards out there than we faced in here.” The mage looked toward Jak—no, toward his fallen comrade on the floor in the aisle.
“Someone go check the windows.” Sorath tilted his head toward the far wall, though the curtains were drawn on whatever view lay beyond them. “See if we can climb out. We want to get to the portal, not fight the entire contingent of castle guards.”
“I’ll do it,” Jak said, immediately liking the idea of climbing out of here before being forced into a battle.
Was it possible that they could reach the portal from here? The library was on the third floor, and he knew from the way it faced and their walk here that it wouldn’t be near that particular courtyard, but perhaps they could find a route around the exterior of the castle to it.
An explosive dropped so close it sounded like it had landed inside the castle. The floor quaked, bookcases rattled, tomes flew free, and a chandelier in the ceiling smashed to the floor behind the mercenaries. Several booms answered, seemingly from right overhead. Artillery weapons mounted in the castle towers? Or were mageships up there, trading fire with each other?
As Jak drew closer to the windows, Mother right behind him, he wondered if Malek had survived his battle with the other zidarr. And if so, would he stay out there and keep fighting, or would Uthari call him back to the castle? What was the likelihood that a bomb would drop on Uthari’s suite and take out the old wizard?
They reached the windows, but as Jak parted the curtains, a vision charged into his mind so forcefully he almost tripped. In it, he was lying on his back in the courtyard that held the portal, looking up toward the bellies of three mageships battling each other under a cloudy night sky. It took him a moment to realize he was seeing the world as if he were the portal. As in his dream, it was sharing its perspective with him. This time, it wasn’t some ancient memory but a vision of the present. And he wasn’t dreaming; he was awake and standing in the library, somehow seeing this even though his eyes were open.
Two of the three mageships were painted green, one of the colors of the intruders, and one was the black of Uthari’s forces. At first, Jak thought the black mageship was defending the artifact against the others, but ropes with grappling hooks dangled over the railings. Was someone on Uthari’s side trying to steal the portal? Or was that a ship that had been painted to look like it was on Uthari’s side? Surely, such a simple ruse wouldn’t fool mages. Maybe, now that the castle’s defenses were down, Uthari’s people had been ordered to move the portal to a safer locale. But why use rope and grappling hook when the mages could levitate the big artifact around?
Cannons fired from the other ships, keeping the black vessel too busy to fly down close enough to hook the artifact. From the fingers of mages standing at the railings, fireballs and crackling blue electricity streaked across the dark sky. A sense of disgruntlement filled Jak. Originating from the portal? It had to be, but what did it mean? That the portal was unhappy to have people fighting over it? Maybe it worried they would damage it in their battle.
Jak sucked in a sharp breath as a new thought occurred to him. Maybe if he could reach the portal and touch it, as he had the other night in the courtyard, he could convince it to attack the ships up there. Or somehow help the mercenary ship that had crashed, the mercenary ship that held their captain and Jak’s medallion. Unfortunately, he didn’t see it in the sky, not from the portal’s perspective. Maybe it was too damaged and hadn’t been able to get off that peninsula.
Someone gripped Jak’s shoulder, shaking him until the vision snapped, and he found himself staring at the window again, the curtains now open. His mother stood beside him, her brow creased with worry.
“Are you here with me?” she whispered as another boom thundered through the library. Something snapped. A door hinge?
“Yeah, sorry. I, uh, got a message from the portal.”
She stared at him as if he’d failed his favorite cartography class. “It… spoke to you?”
“It shared a vision. I think if I could get to it, I could convince it to help.”
“Help how?”
Good question, since he hadn’t seen the ship the mercenaries wanted to get the portal on. But maybe one of their ally ships would work. That wouldn’t get Jak back his medallion, but at least they could escape the city under siege. But to what end? Whatever ship got the portal would be chased by Uthari’s remaining forces. Malek himself would personally come for it; Jak was sure of it.
“It’ll defend itself,” he said when Mother squeezed his shoulder again. “Like before, remember?”
“You think you can get those ships to throw mittens down on it?”
“No, but they’re attacking each other right above it, and there’s shooting going on all around. If we could get out into the courtyard, and I could touch it, maybe I could convince it that it’s in danger, and it would take action.”
“Get out into the courtyard with a battle going on all around? We’d be better off staying in the library.” Despite the words, Mother unlatched the window and pushed it open, so she could lean out and take a look.
Jak’s fingers twitched toward her as he envisioned some stray charge blowing her head off. But the fighting wasn’t taking place on this side of the castle. Other than a few flashes of light off to the side, they couldn’t see much, except for the city wall. There was a roof two stories below and a gap of ten feet between its wall and the castle wall. They might be able to run through that alley and find a way to the courtyard.
Bam!
“It’s about to give,” one of the mercenaries said. “Do we try the windows?”
Mother leaned back in and called to them. “There’s a big battle going on at the courtyard.”
“We’ll make it bigger then,” Sorath said grimly.
But before the mercenaries could charge back to the windows to join them, a final bam sounded, flinging the doors open with a crash. Explosives detonated and magelocks blasted. Men and women shouted, and someone cried out in pain.
From their spot, Jak and Mother couldn’t see the battle. She hunkered down, holding a finger to her lips. But Jak peered out the window again, thinking they would be better off sneaking to the courtyard. They wouldn’t need to run all the way out into it, not until things quieted down, but—
He jerked back as the black hull of a mageship flew past only ten yards away. Its belly skimmed just above the castle wall. This close, someone on the deck could easily glance in the library window.
Jak squatted low next to Mother, only his eyes above the sill. Uthari must have called more of his people in to help with the battle over the courtyard.
He could see up to the railing, but nobody stood within view. The crew was probably focused ahead, toward the other ships. The vessel passed by as weapons fire and sword clashes filled the library. Jak started to rise, but a second black mageship came right behind the first. He squatted back down so quickly his butt hit the floor.
Its hull was burned and peppered from cannonballs and magical attacks, revealing the wood beneath the paint. A gaping hole showed the inner workings of the craft, including a faint glow from the magical engine that powered it. Mages stood at the railing, their arms raised or weapons in hand, their determined faces pointed toward the courtyard.
Jak sucked in a startled breath as a familiar face came into view. Malek.
His clothing was ripped and singed, and blood that might have been his or some enemy’s was dried on his jaw. He carried his blazing sword, the blade resting on his shoulder as he waited patiently to put it to use.
The urge to belly crawl away from the window filled Jak, but he dared not move. Unfortunately, the crack of a weapon firing in the library nearby drew Malek’s attention to the open window. His gaze locked on to Jak and Mother.
Jak swallowed, afraid he would lash out with his power, that he would be furious about their escape attempt and everything that was happening tonight. Malek’s angular face gave away nothing of his thoughts.
The mageship continued flying past, opening fire on another vessel that had to be coming in over the main part of the castle. Malek faced forward again and strode out of view. Jak doubted that meant they were safe, just that Malek would deal with them later.
“I don’t know whether to feel relieved or distressed that he’s still alive,” Mother murmured.
“I think the probability of success for the mercenaries’ mission just got that much more improbable.”
After the ships had passed, Mother leaned out the window again, peering upward instead of down. She leaned farther out, so far that Jak grabbed her arm, afraid she would fall. Especially when a thunderous boom came from the entrance to the library, followed by a cacophonous rockfall—a ceiling fall. Wood shattered as more bookcases toppled, and magelocks fired amid the slabs of ceiling tumbling down. So much dust clouded the air that it traveled all the way under the mezzanine to their window.
Mother barely seemed to notice. “There’s a ship up there. Way up there.”
“There are ships all over the place.” Jak eyed the hazy aisle behind them warily. If the mercenaries had been overrun, they would have company soon. The shouts that trickled back were muted, and he couldn’t tell which side was voicing them.
“Ships with huge holes in the hull leaking black smoke?” Mother asked.
Jak frowned and leaned out beside her, craning his neck to peer past the eaves of the library. The ship was so far up that he could barely see it through the hazy cloud cover, but… “That does look like the same hole that was in the crashed ship. And the hull is the right color.”
“If those are our mercenaries, your medallion should be up there. And maybe a way for us to get out of this.”
“I need to get to the courtyard so I can try communicating with the portal, not into a ship a hundred feet above us.”
“It’s fifty, sixty at most, and I’m not letting you run out into the middle of a battle to try talking to an ancient artifact.”
“I wasn’t going to talk to it. I was going to communicate telepathically with it.”
“That’s not any less strange. Listen, Jak. There’s no way we’re going to get out of here with that portal, and I’m skeptical any mercenaries are either. But if we can escape with our lives and the medallion, that’ll be enough, at least for today. Let me have one of the magelocks.” She plucked the spare pistol from his belt. “I’m going to try to get their attention. Maybe they’ll come down and get us.”
“Oh, sure. We’re as priceless and valuable as the portal. They’ll be sure to risk their ship and themselves to come down.”
“If the mercenary commander is up there, she’ll recognize us—and our value.” Mother pointed the magelock at the dark sky and fired so that its bright blue charge soared upward and past the railing of the mageship.
“Let’s hope the commander of every other mageship out there doesn’t recognize our value,” Jak said, “and come kidnap us for it.”
Admittedly, the library window was no longer in view of the other ships—they’d all flown past to join in the battle over the courtyard. Still, they might see that shot as the signal it was and come investigate.
Mother waved upward—was someone looking down?—and fired again.
Jak rubbed his face. “They’re going to think you’re firing on them, not signaling them.”
He envisioned cannonballs raining down onto the roof of the library—or mage fireballs.
Someone thundered into the aisle behind them, and Jak spun, pulling out the other pistol. But it was Colonel Sorath.
“Is someone shooting at you?” he asked as he raced toward them, the other mercenaries pounding after him.
Only then did Jak realize the sounds of battle near the doors had fallen silent. “Did you beat all of them?”
He’d envisioned hordes of mages flowing in after they bashed down the door.
“They’re temporarily delayed.”
A groan came from the entrance.
“Under a pile of rubble,” Sorath added.
Sergeant Tinder patted her ammo pouch.
“Your ship is up there.” Jak pointed out the window.
“They’ll want us to have the artifact ready to lift off then.” Sorath leaned past Mother, taking Jak’s spot, though he only glanced upward and then peered toward the courtyard. He waved for his people to follow him, then shoved the window open farther so he could climb out. “We’ve got to clear the way so they can fly down and get it.”
“I might be able to help,” Jak said.
“No,” Mother said sharply, frowning at him. “We’re escaping.”
“Not if they don’t come down to get us.” Jak doubted his mother’s shots to the stars would convince the crew up there that they were allies who should be given a ride.
Sorath prodded him. “How can you help, killer?”
“I’ve communicated with the portal before and have gotten it to defend itself. Vigorously.”
“He doesn’t know if he can do it again,” Mother said.
“Vigorous defense?” Sergeant Tinder glanced at her comrades. “From an artifact?”
“A dragon artifact,” Jak pointed out.
“Please.” Mother gripped Sorath’s arm. “You can’t take my son into that battle. Malek and who knows what other zidarr are over there, along with five mageships whipping magical attacks everywhere. Not to mention the guards in the courtyard and the towers.”
Sorath hesitated, then nodded. “You better stay with your mother, kid. But not in here. It’s not going to be safe for long.”
A gust of magical wind whistled through the library doors. Jak couldn’t see the entrance, but he heard the activity there as huge pieces of rubble clunked and thudded off the pile. More mages had come to dig out their buddies.
“Definitely not safe in here,” Sorath muttered. “They’ll have that cleared in a minute. Everyone goes out. We’ll take that alley to the courtyard.”
Mother looked wistfully up at the mageship, but it had given no indication that its crew had noticed her shots.
“We’ll be all right, Mother,” Jak said as Tezi and several others climbed past them, out onto the roof and down the side of the building. “So long as your rappelling skills are in order.”
“When I rappel, I usually use rope.” But she climbed out the window ahead of him as more mercenaries skimmed over the edge of the roof and down to the side yard. She paused, looking hopefully up at the sky.
Jak shook his head. They weren’t going to get out of here until the battle over the artifact was resolved, one way or another.
Chapter 30
30
Lieutenant Sasko looked over the railing as the Dauntless flew high over the city, hugging the clouds and trying to avoid notice as they navigated toward the castle. A half-dozen other ships from both sides battled below, their magical attacks and incendiary rounds lighting up the night.
Smoke still wafted from the side of the Dauntless. Tinder’s fire had died out, but whatever she’d concocted to burn was effective, the lingering black clouds continuing to help camouflage their ship. Sasko wouldn’t have believed it possible they could get this close without being fired upon, but she also hadn’t known other vessels would be angling for the artifact.
“They’re fighting each other,” Ferroki said, coming up beside her. “One of Uthari’s ships is firing on two others. I don’t know why, but this would be the ideal situation for us if they weren’t right above our goal.”
“Descend,” Stone Heart barked from the deck. He’d recovered sufficiently from his attack, though he was still limping, to stalk about and make it clear that he’d taken over the Dauntless. Captain Toggs relayed the order to the helmsman and didn’t question the zidarr.
Ferroki did. She stepped away from the railing to face him and asked in her quiet, nonchallenging manner, “My lord, you want us to drop down into the middle of their firefight?”
Stone Heart glowered over at her. “We’re getting that portal. All of this—” he waved to the city, the other ships, and a gash in his temple, “—was for the portal. We’ve lost numerous ships. Zaruk and the others will be furious if we don’t come back with it.”
“I understand, my lord, and I don’t disagree about our mission. I just wondered if there’s a way to get it without jumping into the middle of everyone shooting at each other. If we try to lift the artifact out in front of them, won’t they all attack us?”
“Some of those are our allies. They’ll help us. And I’ll handle a diversion for the rest.” Stone Heart lifted his chin. “Don’t worry about it, mercenary. Just shoot your magelock when ordered to do so.”
“Yes, my lord.” Ferroki managed to keep her tone neutral, but Sasko knew how much she hated arrogance—and tactics that a five-year-old could poke holes in.
“What happens if Malek is down there and beats the stuffing out of him again?” Sasko whispered.
Corporal Dicer ran up to them, giving the zidarr and ship’s captain a wide berth. “Ma’am, someone fired two shots from below. The blasts flew past us and straight up, and the crew didn’t react, but I think it may have been a signal.”
Ferroki looked sharply at her. “Sorath and our team?”
“It could be, ma’am. It wasn’t the flare that the colonel took, but maybe they lost that.” Dicer held up a spyglass and pointed beyond the railing. “There are people down there climbing out a window and across a roof.”
Ferroki grabbed the spyglass and rushed back to the railing. Sasko peered down at the castle, its large courtyards, and the cluster of ships battling each other. Fire in other parts of the city drew her eye. Several of their ally vessels were hurling flaming projectiles at structures outside of the castle walls. Targeting infrastructure and government buildings, Sasko hoped, and not the homes of innocent people. Inasmuch as she considered mages innocent people.
“That’s our team,” Ferroki said loudly enough for Toggs and Stone Heart to hear.
A group of ten or twelve people was climbing down the side of a large building inside the castle to a narrow side yard. Sasko spotted Tezi’s blonde head standing out in the haze and darkness. One other woman with darker hair kept glancing upward.
“Is that the professor?” Sasko wondered. “Did they find her?”
“It might be.” Ferroki’s hand strayed toward the pocket where she’d been keeping the medallion.
Toggs and Stone Heart crowded around them at the railing, and she lowered her hand.
“They don’t have the artifact yet,” Toggs said. “We should wait until they put the hooks around it so we can drop rope and lift it up here.”
“Hooks?” Stone Heart curled a lip. “I can lift it. What we need is people distracting all those who will oppose me and make the task difficult.” He squinted toward one of the black-hulled ships floating over the courtyard. “Malek is down there. I can sense him. And another zidarr. Damn it.”
Malek’s ship was firing on two other ships as they fired back. Oddly, as Ferroki had pointed out, one of its targets also had a black hull.
“Are they firing on their own side?” Captain Toggs asked.
“It looks like it,” Ferroki said. “But why? Betrayal from within?”
“This could be our opportunity to slip in.” Toggs glanced at Stone Heart. Maybe he also hadn’t fancied the idea of descending into the middle of a firefight.
Stone Heart gripped his chin as he stared down at Malek’s ship. Scheming about how he could come out on top if they had to fight again?
“Take us down,” Stone Heart said. “Not directly over the courtyard but back where the mercenary team came out of that building. By the time we’re ready to make our move, maybe our enemies will all have destroyed each other.”
“Hopefully not taking out our team at the same time,” Ferroki murmured, her gaze toward their mercenaries.
Sorath’s group had reached the ground and was advancing through the shadows toward an expansive garden along the castle wall. On the other side of it, gates led into the courtyard where the portal rested. And where dozens of lamps glowed and magical attacks blasted through the sky like fireworks. There would be no shadows to hide in down there.
Reminded that Ferroki seemed to have feelings for Sorath, Sasko patted her on the shoulder. “They’ve gotten this far,” she said as the Dauntless descended, the events below coming into sharper focus. “Odds are that they can survive another twenty minutes.”
“I hope so.”
“I don’t know who knocked out the city defense shield,” Sasko said, “but it’s a bit of luck that it looks like they’ve been able to take advantage of.”
“Yes. Our employers may have an ally on the inside.”
“The real challenge will come after we get the artifact, if we indeed manage that.” Toggs mopped sweat from his brow, as if he’d been engaged in a battle himself instead of simply yelling orders at his crew. “Every ship left in their fleet will give chase.”
“Yes, but there are a lot of green and blue ships among them.” Ferroki pointed out a few ally vessels. “If we’re blessed with the hare’s luck, they’ll buy us enough time to get a head start, so we can make it back to Zaruk’s city. At that point, if Uthari’s people follow and there’s another war to fight, Zaruk and his allies will have to draw up another contract for us to sign.”
“And pay us again?” Sasko smiled, though she’d had enough of this battle and would prefer to go back to simple missions down on the ground, missions that didn’t pit them against mages.
“War is the best chance mercenaries get to line their coffers,” Ferroki murmured. It sounded like she was quoting some old saying, but Sasko doubted that one came out of her favored fables.
“Money can only be spent by the living.”
“True.”
“Ah,” Captain Toggs muttered, concern in that single note. He wasn’t looking toward the courtyard as they continued to descend but up toward the sky.
Stone Heart peered in that direction too. Sasko didn’t see anything, but the two men exchanged long looks with each other.
“What is it?” Ferroki asked.
“The city defensive shield is still down, but the one that’s over the castle, the one that let all these ships get in close, including ours, is back up.” Toggs pointed to the sky overhead. “We can sense it. It just re-formed up there.”
“Does that mean it’ll be harder to get the portal?” Sasko asked.
“It means that even if we get it, we won’t be able to escape afterward. Unless someone can knock the shield out again, we’re stuck in their city.”
Sasko hoped for a cocky comment from Stone Heart about how he could easily knock it out, but for the first time, he looked daunted. “That’s going to be problematic.”
Why did Sasko have a feeling that was a huge understatement?
Jadora kept glancing up at the mercenary ship as she followed Jak and the others through the side yard, fireballs and other magical attacks casting aside shadows as they lit up the night ahead. When the vessel had started descending, her spirits had risen as she envisioned them swooping in and lowering ropes, so she and Jak could climb out of this mess and leave the battle for the mercenaries. But the vessel had stopped descending. Since it hovered more than forty feet above them, ropes wouldn’t likely be lowered.
“Sir.” One of the mages near Sorath held up a hand. “Wait.”
Sorath, who’d led the way into every battle Jadora had witnessed, paused. “What is it?”
“I sense…” The mage looked up, not at any of the ships but toward the clouds above them.
“The castle’s defensive shield is back up,” one of the other mages said grimly.
“Meaning that even if we’re able to get to the portal and secure it, our ship won’t be able to pick us up?” Sorath asked.
“Oh, picking us up won’t be the problem. But escaping afterward will be impossible.” The mage pointed toward the sky. “The shield is a dome that extends from there to there and peaks right over our ship. The Dauntless is caught inside. All of these ships flying low over the castle are trapped.”
“If they’re trapped inside, they can still do damage to it and each other. Maybe they’ll knock out the shield again.” Sorath continued forward, as if the revelation had changed nothing. He had a mission, and he was determined to fulfill it.
The mages, who understood the defenses and the magical system more thoroughly, exchanged worried looks with each other and lingered in the back as the mercenaries stuck with Sorath. They weren’t the only ones to stick with him. Jak was right at his side, even slightly ahead.
What was he doing? Jadora charged after him, squeezing past two mages and grabbing his shoulder.
“Let them go first,” she whispered. She didn’t want to go at all.
Jak didn’t look at her. His eyes were glassy as he stared toward the courtyard. She snapped her fingers in front of his face. Was the portal putting another vision in his head? If she’d known the artifact had the power to lure her son to what might be his death, Jadora never would have dug it up.
“I have to convince it to help,” Jak mumbled, pulling against her grip.
“What’s it trying to convince you to do?” she demanded.
At first, he didn’t answer, but after a pause, he said, “It’s afraid.”
“Afraid?”
“That this is the end, that the magic being thrown around will be enough to destroy it. That’s why I don’t think it will take much to convince it to help.” Again, Jak tried to pull away and keep walking.
Jadora grabbed his other shoulder but struggled to hold him back. She almost stepped into a thorny rosebush next to a burbling stone fountain, the serenity of the garden a ridiculous contrast to the chaos of the night.
Jak didn’t yank hard, but he pulled away from her with steady determination. She found herself stumbling along after him, still gripping his shoulders.
At least the mercenaries had drawn ahead, passing more fountains and trees and benches that lined the path. At the end of the garden, an open gate to the courtyard was visible. Red-uniformed guards inside launched magical attacks at the ships twenty feet above.
An explosive streaked from one of the vessels and struck a castle wall, blowing a hole that sent rubble flying all over the courtyard. Clanks and clinks sounded as several pieces hit the portal.
Maybe Jak was right; maybe it would defend itself. But who would it target? Every ship in the sky, including the one that was supposed to pick them up? Was an ancient artifact capable of distinguishing ally from enemy? Her stomach churned as she imagined its power destroying the mercenaries as well as Uthari’s people.
Sorath continued to lead his people through the garden, the air thick with pollen knocked from flowers by the rattling of the ground, and stopped at the entrance to the courtyard. Jadora tightened her grip on Jak, trying to keep him from weaving through the group to the front again. Sorath studied the situation ahead.
The portal was in the same place as it had been before, but no fewer than forty guards stood around it, half shielding it and themselves with their magic, half flinging attacks at the intruder ships. On the walls and in the guard towers, more of Uthari’s people fired cannons and magelocks. The green-hulled ships seemed to mostly be defending themselves, knocking aside the attacks targeting them and keeping the defenders distracted from the mercenary ship.
Sorath waved Tinder up to his side and pointed at her grenades.
Jak tried to walk up to join them—or walk straight out into the courtyard where he would surely be blasted down. Jadora released his shoulders and wrapped her arms around his torso, leaning back and digging in her heels. His face was slack, eyes still glazed. Even if communicating with the portal had been his idea, she didn’t believe that he was acting of his own accord now.
A burst of magical power came from the deck of Malek’s ship—maybe from Malek himself—and slammed into one of Zaruk’s vessels. It tore away the defenses around it, leaving it open for attack from others.
“Open fire!” Malek yelled, the cry for his allies as well as the defenders below.
Tinder pointed toward the artifact and raised her eyebrows. Sorath held up a finger.
With the cacophony of noise, Jadora couldn’t hear their words, but he seemed to be saying to wait. She hoped so. Maybe the two sides would blow themselves up, and their team could sneak in afterward.
She glanced at their getaway ship, still wishing it would lower a rope for her and Jak, though she wouldn’t be able to convince him to climb it right now.
One of the mages tapped Sorath’s shoulder and pointed behind them. More ships were flying in from the rear of the castle—more ships that had been caught inside when its defensive shield went back up. They were blue-hulled and green-hulled. More allies of the mercenaries.
“Help is coming, Jak,” she whispered, shaking him, hoping to knock him out of the trance. “We may have a shot after all.”
The newcomers opened fire on the back of Malek’s craft. Its mages had defenses up, but with so many enemies focusing attacks on it, could the mages onboard sustain their shields? Even with Malek’s help?
Jadora stared upward, strange feelings of bleakness filling her as she imagined him dying during this battle. He’d been the one to kidnap her, to start her down this awful road, but he’d also been… oddly polite to them. He’d even protected them. As strange as it seemed, she didn’t want to see him die. It would doubtless be better for Jak and Jadora and their quest if he did, but she couldn’t wish that end for him.
Not that it mattered. As one of the new ships joined in with the others, Malek’s fate seemed inevitable. She tried to feel cheerful since it meant that she and Jak might not only escape but escape with the portal.
Then, strange streaks of red lightning came out of the castle, from a window on an upper floor. They branched and blasted into the ships of Uthari’s enemies, the two over the courtyard and the others approaching. Screams came from the decks as the lightning branched and branched again to wrap around the vessels. Their shields were torn away by the raw power. It burned in the sky so brightly that Jadora had to lift her hands for protection and close her eyes. The brilliant red still flashed against her eyelids.
Even as a mundane human with no ability to sense magic, she felt the raw power. Was the portal responsible? If so, this was like nothing she’d seen it unleash before.
“Stay back,” one of the mercenaries warned. “It’s Uthari.”
Jadora had lost her grip on Jak when she lifted her hands, and she hoped those words weren’t for him. She pried her eyelids open to make sure he hadn’t moved, but the brilliant lightning made it hard to see anything.
“I was afraid he’d show up.” Sorath’s voice was calm despite the screams coming from the ships above them, and she found that slightly reassuring.
Squinting, Jadora saw one of those ships crash into the street on the other side of the castle wall. Another careened off toward the city walls, its entire frame blackened and smoking, no sign of life on the deck.
“Jak?” she called softly, searching for him among the mercenaries, with her eyes watering. “Someone grab him, please.”
Sorath swore. “He’s in the courtyard.”
Jadora surged toward the gate, imagining one of Uthari’s bolts striking him down, killing him instantly.
Sorath caught her by the shoulders and stopped her. “Stay here. I’ll get him.”
As he ran into the courtyard, weapons at the ready, a shout of, “There they are!” came from behind the mercenaries.
The defenders they’d eluded in the library had caught up with them.
“Behind,” Tinder barked as Uthari’s lightning continued to pummel ships, razing them with power that the mages on board couldn’t defend against. She threw something at the group of twenty guards running toward them—a grenade.
One of them spun a fireball into the air to intercept it. The grenade blew up between the groups, the power sending them all stumbling back.
Jadora thudded off the wall, Tinder hitting right beside her with a grunt. Something bashed against Jadora’s wrist—Tinder’s clunky bag of grenades. The flap hung open.
On impulse, and before the mercenary sergeant moved away, Jadora grabbed one and crept toward the courtyard. Let the others deal with the defenders. She had to get Jak—and to drag him to a safe spot and sit on him.
The mercenaries clashed with the castle defenders as she crept through the gate and into the courtyard. Several charred bodies lay dead on the ground inside. But where had Jak gone? The mages were still protecting the portal, save for four who had charged out to meet Sorath, but she didn’t see Jak anywhere. She hoped he’d come to his senses and found a hiding spot.
More red lightning streaked out of Uthari’s window and slammed into another ship. She swallowed, afraid he might have already struck down Jak for daring to get close to the portal. His power might have been enough to char him beyond recognition.
That thought almost paralyzed Jadora, and she scanned the bodies as she backed toward a wall out of some vague self-preservation instinct. Until she figured out where he was, she should stay out of the line of fire. She halted, remembering how they’d hidden in the opening in the center of the portal to talk. Maybe he’d somehow sneaked past the mages to climb inside it.
A shadow falling behind her made her jump. A hand landed on her shoulder, and terror lurched through her. She whirled with the grenade in her hand, her thumb on the plunger. But the hand shifted from her shoulder to her wrist with lightning speed, halting her throw.
“That’s not your usual projectile,” Malek said, his face almost unrecognizable through dried and fresh blood, soot, and other grime.
She gaped at him, then glanced upward at the Star Flyer. What was he doing down here?
“Keeping you from getting killed,” he said, reading her mind—or her face. Exasperation was the predominate emotion on his, but surprisingly, he didn’t sound angry. Didn’t anything faze the man?
He pulled her back toward the wall, pressing her into the slight cover offered by a support column. “Stay.”
“I came for Jak,” she blurted.
“I know.” Malek turned and took a step toward the portal, as if he knew exactly where Jak was, but someone else dropped down from above, as if it was perfectly normal for people to jump thirty feet and land without killing themselves.
The man—the zidarr—came down on the portal itself, startling the guards around it, some of whom had been busy gaping at Malek. That looked like Zaruk’s Stone Heart.
He crouched on the side of the portal, sneering in Malek’s direction as he drew his scimitars. His face was as grimy and bloody as Malek’s, his white hair matted with sweat and soot, his dark eyes reflecting the red glint of Uthari’s continuing lightning attacks.
“You’ve stolen something that belongs to my master,” Stone Heart called, “and as I told you before, I intend to take it back.”
“Let us finish what we started before you fled our last battle.” Malek drew his own weapons.
“You knocked me over the side, you bastard.”
“An attack that was meant to be fatal. This time, I’ll drive my blade into your heart.”
“You can try,” Stone Heart growled.
As Malek strode toward him, a familiar hat poked up from the center of the portal, Jak’s wide eyes visible between Stone Heart’s legs.
“Shylezar save him,” Jadora whispered, terrified.
Her fingers tightened around the grenade—Malek hadn’t taken it from her—but she couldn’t throw it, not with Jak in the middle of the battlefield.
Helpless, she could only watch as Malek sprang up on the portal to join Stone Heart, their weapons clashing as they came together in a flurry of furious blows.
Chapter 31
31
Tezi used one of the rosebushes in the garden for cover as the defenders who’d chased them from the library encroached. Some hurled magical attacks, which the mages on Sorath’s team deflected, and others skulked through the shrubs, fountains, and statues to get closer.
Aware that the rosebush wouldn’t stop bullets or magical blasts, Tezi tried to avoid notice as she searched for a target that might not have his or her guard up. But everything the mercenaries threw at the other party bounced off. The defenders had their magical shields up as they strode forward, trying to push the mercenaries through the gateway and into the courtyard—where they would be in the middle of the chaos of the other battle.
Sergeant Tinder threw a grenade, not straight at their attackers but above them, hoping it would fly over their defenses. Tezi watched it, worried it would tumble back toward them. But the lob carried it over the shield in front of the mages, and one of them had to rush to form something new over their heads. It exploded ten feet above them. Though they’d gotten their defenses shifted in time to prevent anyone being harmed, they were startled by the close call.
One of the mercenaries took that moment to pepper the ground in front of them with some of Sorath’s exploding spheres. That rattled them further, especially when bushes and a stone bench blew up all around them.
Tezi aimed at a mage on the end, one who didn’t look like he was concentrating effectively to defend himself. Her shot took him in the shoulder, and he flew back.
“Their defenses are down,” one of the mercenaries barked. “Fire.”
A magical blast knocked back the defenders as several charges flew in, pegging them in the chests. Tinder hurled another grenade, this time straight at the group, but someone in the back had recovered enough to spread a barrier in front of his people.
The grenade bounced back toward the mercenaries without detonating. Tinder swore and lunged for it, but one of the mages wrapped her in a blanket of power, holding her fast.
Terrified, Tezi dove in from the rosebushes. She caught the grenade before it hit the ground, cradling it gently so it wouldn’t blow, and threw it into the air over the garden wall. It exploded ten feet up, taking out two guards who’d been running along the wall toward their battle.
Chunks of the stone wall flew, several smacking her, one in the side of the head and one hard enough to send her rolling into the rosebushes. Thorns clawed at her face and hands, and warm blood dripped down the side of her cheek.
Before she could scramble to her feet, mages from her team ran past her, with several mercenaries right behind them. Someone had forced down the defenders’ barrier again, and the two groups came together, weapon to weapon, fist to fist.
As Tezi rose, wobbly after the strike to the head, someone reached out and grabbed her, helping her up.
“Good thinking, Rookie,” Tinder said and slapped her on the back. “We might just let you stick around.”
A quick, “Thanks,” was all Tezi managed before Tinder charged off to join the others in the fray.
Tezi patted around, found her magelock, and rushed off to help. She had no idea if they would survive the next ten minutes, but at least she’d gotten praise from Tinder.
Jak came fully back to his senses in the worst spot imaginable. He crouched in the center of the portal, keeping his head below the surface, as Malek and Stone Heart battled scant feet away. Metal rang out, the noise deafening this close, and their boots moved in a blur as they lunged and retreated, parrying, thrusting, and slashing, the entire sword fight playing out on the side of the portal.
They knew Jak was there—both men had glanced down at him—but they were too busy with each other to attack him or spare him another glance. He still had a couple of charges in his magelock and thought about trying to shoot one of the zidarr, but he didn’t even know which one he would target. They were both enemies, both wanting the portal and to keep Jak and his mother against their wishes. He vaguely wanted Malek to win, but it would be best for him if they killed each other. Not that he and his mother would have freedom even then.
Red blasts of lightning continued to fly from an upper window, Uthari’s dark silhouette just visible in a dim room. He’d taken down one of the black mageships—the one whose crew had seemed to be working against his people—and three of his enemies’ ships. Jak had never seen such power in his life or imagined it was possible.
A streak of lightning shot toward the most distant green vessel—the mercenary ship that had crashed on the lawn. The ship that was supposed to take the artifact and get it out of here. The ship that held the mercenary captain who had Jak’s medallion.
Damn it. If that one went down…
Jak gripped the hilt of his magelock, tempted to shoot Uthari. Would it work? If the wizard was busy attacking, maybe there weren’t any defenses protecting him. But he was up in his suite. Chances were some artifact there would protect him even if he wasn’t consciously thinking about defense.
Besides, Jak would only get one shot before the mages guarding the portal spotted and shot him. There were dozens of them, though they’d backed away slightly to ensure they didn’t lose their heads to a stray sword swipe from the powerful zidarr. He had no idea how he’d gotten past them. The last thing he remembered was his mother gripping his shoulder, and then he’d woken, as if from a dream, here in the middle of the portal.
The portal, he realized, staring at the blue-black dragon steel in front of him. It had done it—taken control of him.
Later, he would find that alarming, but now, he remembered his original intent and pressed his palm against its cool metal.
A low sword slash whizzed near his ear, and he jammed his hat lower on his head and sank to his knees, huddling down as much as he could with his hand still on the portal. As the men battled above him, flecks of blood and sweat spattering the back of his neck, Jak did his best to focus on communicating with it. Before, he’d tricked it, but he didn’t want to trick it again. Something told him the portal was intelligent enough to come to resent that.
We’re stuck in this place together, he told it, sharing an image of him and his mother locked in the cell on Malek’s ship even as the portal had been imprisoned on its deck. I know you’ve only acted to defend yourself before, but won’t you help us to escape? We’ll take you with us.
He formed the imagery of the jungle, the pool, and the waterfall in his mind, trying to replicate what it had shared with him in that dream.
We’ll take you back to that place, to the pool and the waterfall where you were set up before. Is that where you belong? Where you need to be placed for dragons to use you again? Afraid the ancient artifact didn’t understand his language, Jak tried to convey his meaning with images as well as words. He had no idea how he would convince the mercenaries and whoever commanded their ship—one of Vorsha’s—to fly off to Zewnath in the Southern Hemisphere instead of back to Zaruk’s city, but he would do his best.
Screams came from above, breaking Jak’s concentration. A blast of red lightning struck someone on the deck of the mercenary ship, and the charred body flew all the way to the far side and over the railing. It tumbled down to splat sickeningly on the castle wall.
Stop Uthari, he pleaded silently to the portal, realizing the king was the greatest threat here now. Stone Heart and Malek would also do their best to keep Jak from getting the portal, but for the moment, they were busy with each other.
A grunt of pain came from above, followed by the clatter of a sword hitting dragon steel and bouncing to the ground.
Jak wanted to ignore the battle above him and focus his efforts on the portal, but he couldn’t keep from lifting his head enough to see who’d been hurt. Stone Heart stumbled back, gripping a gash in his chest, blood streaming through his fingers. He sneered at Malek, who advanced with deadly intent, and kept his other scimitar up.
The lightning halted abruptly, the sky going dark.
Jak peered up at Uthari, and his entire body clenched with fear. The wizard was looking straight at him. He must have spotted Jak for the first time, maybe even realized what he was trying to do. Surely, Uthari could read his mind as easily as Malek could.
Uthari lifted his palm, his eyes narrowing as he focused on Jak.
Seeing his death in those eyes, Jak silently cried, Help me! to the portal. Please. He envisioned it lashing out at Uthari to protect Jak.
Red lightning sprang from Uthari’s palm. Jak ducked low, though he was certain it would arc and have no trouble reaching him. But the portal responded with an attack of its own, and blue lightning streaked out from its surface. Blue and red met, sizzling and writhing angrily in the sky ten feet above the portal, as if fighting their own battle.
Meanwhile, Malek paid no attention. He lunged in with his main-gauche, knocking Stone Heart’s scimitar aside, then followed up with his long sword. The glowing blade swept through the air as red and blue lightning danced overhead, casting his face in a demonic light. As Malek’s magical blade cut through Stone Heart’s neck, severing his head, the blue lightning from the portal advanced across the sky, driving the red back.
Uthari lurched back from his window, and the red lightning disappeared completely. The blue flowed through the window, and a startled cry came from the king’s suite. More lightning sprang from the portal, striking guards all across the courtyard with enough power to throw them twenty feet into the walls.
Malek must have realized he was in danger for he sprang away from the portal. But lightning struck him, wrapping all around his body as pure power flung him through the air. He bounced off a wall and landed on his back, not moving.
“Don’t hit my mother,” Jak blurted, spotting her still crouching by a column with a grenade in hand.
The portal blew more defenders off the castle wall as lightning branched along it and into the guard towers. Jak had no idea if it was killing everyone or just knocking them down, but he worried about what he’d unleashed.
Then the portal shifted, startling him. It wobbled on the courtyard ground, and it took him a moment to realize what was happening. A dozen mages were levitating it into the air. They were up on the mercenary ship, all lined up at the railing, their faces tight with concentration. The mercenaries on deck were throwing ropes over the side to their teammates in the courtyard and garden. Jak spotted Tezi’s blonde hair before the portal rose higher, blocking his view.
Realizing he was about to be left behind, he sprang up, catching the portal and scrambled onto the side.
“Mother,” he yelled, waving for her to join him.
But before she’d taken a step, Sorath rushed to the wall and grabbed her, somehow hoisting her over his shoulder with his pickaxe arm. He ran back across the courtyard and sprang, catching one of four ropes dangling down. Beside him, more mercenaries climbed up the others. He merely held on, concentrating on keeping his grip on Mother.
As the portal kept rising, Jak sprawled on his stomach. It wobbled and tilted, the mages’ grip on it tenuous.
Thankfully, nobody fired at him. The portal had knocked down everyone left who might have done so. Fresh smoke wafted from the mercenary ship, and there were so many holes in its hull that it would have sunk if it had been in the ocean. Would it truly carry them out of here?
A thought jolted Jak. What about the defensive shield protecting the castle? They would all be stuck here if that was still in place.
He flattened his hand against the portal, groping for a way to ask if it could knock out the defenses so they could escape. An image came to him of a purple crystal lying on a carpet inside the king’s suite, not far from Uthari himself, who was groaning as he clutched his chest. The top of the crystal had been blasted off, shards littering the floor around it, and smoke trickling upward.
“Was that the device that kept the shield up?” he asked. “Did you do that?”
A faintly smug feeling emanated from the portal.
“Uh, good work.” Jak patted it, having no idea if it would appreciate it or not. All he knew was that it would be wise to stay on its good side.
They came even with the railing of the ship, then rose above it as the mages directed the portal toward the deck.
Jak peered over the side and down to the courtyard. A couple of the guards were moving, grabbing their chests and groaning the way Uthari had been. Maybe the portal hadn’t struck to kill. Normally, that would have filled Jak with relief, but then he focused on Malek. He lay on his back where he’d landed, his arms and legs wide, completely still… until his eyes popped open.
Jak gulped, worried they would have to deal with him again. As powerful as Malek was, they might have to deal with him right away if they didn’t get out of the city quickly.
He scrambled off the portal, his legs wobbly, as it came down on the deck. Sorath made it to the railing, pushing Jak’s mother over before him. She thanked him, then ran to hug Jak. He hugged her back, relieved she hadn’t been killed because he’d let himself be taken over by an artifact.
“That’s everyone,” the mercenary captain—Ferroki?— called, helping Tezi over the railing. “Fly us out of here.”
“Get us out of here, Nobber,” someone else barked, an older man wearing one of Vorsha’s green uniforms and a lot of rank. The captain of the ship.
Mother looked over at him, and Jak could guess her thoughts, that if they couldn’t figure out how to sway the man or take over the ship, they and the portal would end up prisoners in another king’s castle.
“Malek’s still alive,” he whispered to her. “Should we ask someone to…” He couldn’t finish the thought. If anybody was ever going to be able to kill Malek—and ensure he couldn’t give chase—now would be the time.
Jak peered over the side. Their ship was gaining altitude and veering away from the castle and toward the city wall, but he could still see the courtyard. Malek had rolled onto his elbow and with a shaky hand was reaching for his fallen weapons. He wasn’t likely defending himself—a charge from a magelock might take him out.
Mother slumped against the railing beside him, following his gaze. “I don’t think we can. He was trying to protect us.”
“For his master, not because he cares about us. And he’ll follow us. He’ll—”
Jak broke off, for Malek had found his feet and drawn a magelock. He pointed it at their ship—looking for a target on the deck. The ship’s captain? The mercenary leader? Jak and Mother? They were sailing away, but they were still within range, still close enough for him to shoot. Jak and Mother were the only ones at the railing, the only ones he could see from down there.
Jak jerked back, flinging himself to the deck. To his horror, Mother didn’t move. She just stared down at Malek. Jak lunged back to his feet and grabbed her, pulling her back from the railing, but not before he saw Malek lowering the magelock.
He could have fired but hadn’t.
“How did you know?” Jak asked, knowing Mother had been certain.
“He’s been protecting us all along.”
“Not for any altruistic reasons.”
She shrugged and sank down to the deck. “It doesn’t matter.”
“He’ll come after us. I’m pretty sure Uthari isn’t dead either.”
“Let’s worry about one problem at a time.” She looked toward the ship’s captain, who stood with Sorath and Captain Ferroki, studying their prize as the vessel sailed over the city walls and into the cloudy night sky beyond, a few of their ally ships staying behind to lay down fire to distract the remaining defenders. “First, we have to convince them to take us to Zewnath.”
“I know. The mercenaries outnumber the crew—it looks like by a lot—but I doubt they’re going to turn on their employers for no reason. Even if that wasn’t bad for their business, who would dare cross a king? Besides, it’s not like we have the money to outbid Zaruk and hire them away.” Jak patted his pockets, as if some priceless ancient coins might be lurking in them. He still had his lucky compass and a few writing utensils, but that was it.
“No, and I agree that they wouldn’t cross a king, even if they knew us and cared enough to want to help us. I do wonder if they might be convinced if they knew what we hoped to do. The colonel—Sorath—seemed intrigued by the idea when I alluded to it.” Mother patted her own pockets, no doubt also looking for coins. But what she pulled out was the vial containing the smudgy substance she’d sampled in the tunnels, along with a few small vials of samples that she’d somehow managed to keep since the Dragon Perch Islands. Another pocket contained Father’s journal and The Mind Way.
Jak would have laughed at the size and number of her pockets if he hadn’t been so exhausted. “I’m glad you have that.” He pointed to Father’s journal. “If we’d left it behind, Malek might have been able to figure out where we want to take the portal.”
“He read it thoroughly. He might already have pieced it together.”
“Even we didn’t know until we saw the star chart.”
“True,” Mother said, “but it’s possible it could have been sending him visions too.”
“Let’s hope it has better taste than to make friends with the enemy.”
Captain Ferroki walked toward them, and they fell silent.
“We’re out of weapons range of the city, for what it’s worth. I’m sure Uthari will send pursuit if he survived. Is there any chance he didn’t?” Ferroki lifted her eyebrows, asking Jak directly. Maybe she’d seen him hunkered in the middle of the portal and guessed that he’d been responsible.
“I think he and Malek were injured but are alive.” Jak glanced at the portal but didn’t explain further.
Ferroki reached into one of her own pockets and withdrew the familiar medallion. She handed it to Mother, the ornament looking no worse for the wear.
“Thank you,” Mother said. “I’m sorry we don’t have any money to pay you for keeping it for us. We’ve been detained until recently.”
Ferroki snorted softly. “I can imagine. We didn’t negotiate a contract. There’s no need for payment.”
She started to turn away, but Mother stopped her with a lifted hand. “Wait.”
“Yes?”
“Is there any chance…” Mother looked at Ferroki but paused as Sorath walked up to stand at the captain’s side. Mother pushed herself to her feet, faced them, and took a deep breath. “Is there any chance you’d be willing to convince the captain of this ship to take the artifact to a different location?” She didn’t tell them where, but she quietly summed up what they believed it could do if they took it to the right location and activated it—and also what that could mean for mankind. Terrene mankind.
Sorath’s eyes grew wistful as she spoke of the powerful dragons possibly being talked into an alliance with mankind, one that could end the rule of their wizard overlords. Then people would be free from oppression, free to carve out their own destinies. Ferroki seemed more skeptical as she listened, but she didn’t interrupt and let Mother finish.
Sorath was the one to answer. “We signed a contract to work for Zaruk and his allies and return the artifact to them. To do anything else would be breaking our contract and going back on our word. If we did that as mercenaries, we could never find work again.” Interestingly, he didn’t say anything about being afraid of being hunted down by angry kings, but Jak imagined that also figured into the equation. “Besides,” Sorath continued, “we aren’t in command of the ship and have no say in where it goes.” He tilted his head toward the captain of the vessel, the man still studying the portal. “That is Captain Toggs.”
“Where did the lightning shoot out of?” Toggs was asking one of his mages. “That was amazing. It doesn’t even look like a weapon.”
Maybe it was Jak’s imagination, but there seemed to be some significance in Sorath’s eyes when he looked toward the ship’s captain and back again. Ferroki’s eyebrows rose, but she said nothing, and they walked away together.
“Is it just me,” Mother murmured, “or were they implying that if we convinced the captain to turn his ship to the south, they wouldn’t stand in the way?”
“I’m not sure that expression said all that, but it definitely sounds like the captain is the one we need to deal with for matters related to the ship’s direction.”
“Do you think you can convince the portal to help you sway him?” she asked curiously.
Jak hesitated. Could he? No, probably not. The captain was studying it from several feet away and hadn’t so much as touched a finger to it since his people landed it on the deck. None of the crew had. They must have all seen what it was capable of.
“I don’t think so,” Jak said slowly, though it seemed like he should be able to find a way. The portal wanted to go home; he was certain of that. “It didn’t do anything during the battle until Uthari decided to fry me. I’d spent several minutes before that trying to convince it to lash out.”
Mother shook her head, moisture glistening in her eyes. “In that moment, I thought I was going to lose you. I’m relieved but surprised it protected you.”
“Me too.”
“Maybe we need to convince the captain to attack you, ideally while you’re sitting in the middle of the portal.”
“Funny, Mother.”
“You could insult his shoes. Or perhaps the size of his drawing utensil.”
“Thanks so much for these brilliant ideas.”
She smiled, then lifted a finger. “Are you willing to bluff?”
“I…” Right away, Jak realized what she was asking. “I could try.”
“You can do it. Just think ferocious thoughts.”
“You know that’s not natural for me.”
“Imagine he dumped an ink pot on the map you spent a hundred hours working on for your end-of-year project.”
“All right, that’s got me suitably riled.”
“Good. Try to make yourself believe the bluff, in case he’s talented enough to read minds.”
“I’ll try.” Jak removed his hat, the air cool against his damp hair, and held out his hand. It might be best to return the medallion to the spot where it had gone unnoticed for years, nobody guessing that it was the key to operating a powerful artifact.
Mother handed it to him, and he smiled, pleased that she trusted him with it. But then, she always had. She’d known long before he had that it held some significance.
After returning the medallion to its place and the hat to his head, Jak pulled the brim low, hoping it shadowed his eyes and made him look ferocious—or at least older than his age. He pushed himself to his feet, strode to the portal, and hopped up on it. Facing the captain from the higher ground seemed wise, especially since he looked like an old grump.
“I appreciate you helping us escape from the vile clutches of King Uthari,” Jak said, deciding it couldn’t hurt to butter up the officer before threatening him. “And I’m delighted that our portal is now aboard a ship sailing quickly away from his city.”
“Our portal?” Captain Toggs asked, then looked at Ferroki and Sorath. “Who is this kid?”
“Your guests are Professor Freedar,” Sorath said, “and, Jak, wasn’t it?”
“Yes,” Jak said. “Jak Freedar, cartographer extraordinaire.”
“Jak,” Sorath said without commenting on the rest, “and Professor Freedar, this is Captain Toggs, leader of this ship and crew.”
“And transporter of this artifact back to its rightful owner,” Toggs growled, “King Zaruk.”
“We’re archaeologists.” Jak waved at Mother, who’d come over to support him in this. Too bad she hadn’t had time to replenish her vials with some acid concocted from whatever chemicals one could find aboard a mageship. “We’re the ones who dug up the artifact. Our team had signed documents from Perchver University and Zaruk’s personally appointed magistrate giving us permission to search for and excavate any artifacts discovered on the Dragon Perch Islands.” True, though he had no idea where those documents were now. Probably incinerated by lava flows. “Though we’ve been researching the artifact extensively for years, we didn’t realize until recently that it’s sentient and has desires.”
“It has desires,” Toggs said in a flat tone.
“Indeed. After being buried for millennia, it wishes to be returned home.” Jak didn’t give the spiel about how it could perhaps be used to gain allies against the mages, since he was addressing a mage. All the captain needed to know was that the portal wanted to take a trip to the Southern Hemisphere—and would object to anyone trying to take it somewhere else. “It has no desire to be held by King Zaruk or any other king.”
“Darn.”
“Since I’ve been elected to speak on its behalf, I must request that you change course for the Southern Hemisphere. The continent of Zewnath specifically.” Jak wished he knew where on that continent the pool and waterfall were, especially since it was five million square miles in area and Malek was sure to come looking for them soon.
“Oh, sure. We’ll set course right now.”
“Excellent.”
“Sit down, kid, before I throw you overboard. It’s a long drop to the ground from here.”
“Uh, sir.” One of the crewmen stepped forward, lifting a finger. “That artifact is what roasted Uthari’s people with lightning.”
“I have eyes,” Toggs said. “I’m aware of that.”
“That kid was touching it. I think maybe he was responsible.”
“Don’t be stupid.”
“I wasn’t responsible for the lightning,” Jak said. “The artifact was. I only encouraged it.”
“Uh huh.”
This bluff wasn’t going well. Jak wished Toggs were as impressionable as the mage standing to his side.
“As I said,” he pushed on, hoping the captain was bluffing about throwing him overboard, “I am grateful to you and these fine mercenaries, so I have no wish to threaten you, but I must insist—the artifact insists—that you change course.”
To his surprise, the portal pulsed blue, the way it had the night it had shared that dream—that memory—with Jak.
Toggs stumbled back, the sarcastic sneer leaving his face.
“I don’t think he’s joking, sir,” the crewman said. “I think he can control it.”
“How? He’s just a kid.”
“Jak has been studying the portal for more than five years,” Mother said. “He’s young, but he is an expert, and when we were locked up in Uthari’s castle, he had time to establish a rapport with it.”
“A rapport?” Toggs protested. “It’s a piece of metal.”
The portal pulsed blue again. Somehow, that pulse managed to convey indignation. A faint hum of energy ran through it, tickling the bottoms of Jak’s feet. He didn’t know what that felt like to a trained magic user, but it must have been something impressive, for the eyebrows of every mage on the deck flew upward, and they backed farther from the portal, Toggs included.
His face turned ashen. Maybe the portal had conveyed some additional message to him.
“It was crafted long ago by dragons,” Jak said. “I assure you, it’s far more than a piece of metal. Your master wouldn’t want it if it were not very special. And very powerful.”
Another pulse.
“Shit.” Toggs looked around at his crewmen for help, but they all avoided his eyes. When he looked toward Sorath and Ferroki, they didn’t break eye contact, but they also didn’t offer any assistance. “Are you going to let them bully me?” Toggs demanded.
“I’m not doing anything to piss off that ring,” Sorath said.
Ferroki nodded in agreement.
Toggs swore again, then raised his voice and yelled through the hatchway into navigation. “Set a course for Zewnath, Nobber.”
“Uh, yes, sir. Which port?”
Toggs gave Jak a scathing look, but all he said was, “Which port? It’s a big continent.”
That was, of course, the problem. Jak closed his eyes, envisioning some of the maps that he’d studied, and tried to guess where that pool might be. Unfortunately, great swaths of the landmass were full of mountains and lush green vegetation, so that alone didn’t help to narrow things down. And those stars in the star chart would be visible from anywhere on the continent.
“Port Toh-drom,” he said, opting for something central and hoping they could find a guide in the most populous city who might have been to that pool before.
“Right.” Grumbling, Toggs walked into navigation and relayed the destination.
A faint hum went through the ship, and it hiccupped as it shifted course. Jak hoped the damaged craft could get them all the way to the Southern Hemisphere.
“You better watch your back, killer,” Sorath warned. “You’ve made an enemy today.”
“I doubt it’ll be the last.” Jak decided that he would sleep on deck, maybe even in the center of the portal, and pray that it protected him if Toggs sent someone after him with a knife.
“Probably not.”
Epilogue
EPILOGUE
Malek’s entire body ached, but nothing stung so much as his chest. It felt like the blast from the portal had seared his very heart. He was certain it had stopped beating as the raw power had blown him across the courtyard and only resumed again when he’d thumped down onto the courtyard ground, startling it back into its rhythm.
Others who had been struck by the power of the portal hadn’t been so lucky. Before leaving the courtyard to find Uthari, he’d checked on the other castle guards and found many of them dead. Later, Malek would see a healer, but others needed their services far more than he.
His only satisfaction, after watching that smoking wreck of a ship escape with the artifact, had been seeing Stone Heart’s decapitated head and lifeless body on the ground. If Zaruk’s zidarr hadn’t been sent along to harry Malek, the archaeologists never would have gotten away. The artifact would still be in the courtyard, and the castle would still be protected by its magical shield. Probably. The boy Jak being able to call upon the portal’s power to channel as a weapon had been unexpected and—from what Malek had read of Freedar’s notes—unprecedented. Malek couldn’t have anticipated that.
Not that he would utter these excuses to Uthari. He would give no excuses, only accept whatever punishment his liege deemed necessary for this disgraceful failure.
He still didn’t know why one of their own ships had slunk in and attempted to get the artifact for itself, but that craft and its treasonous crew were now wrecked, smoldering in a street outside the castle. Those who survived would be questioned later, if not by Malek, then by Uthari himself.
Malek, having been summoned by his liege, stepped into the windowless dungeon in the center of the castle. Little damage had been done to this part of the compound, and mage lights glowed from the walls. A strong barrier stretched across a cell in the back, the hum of its significant power crackling against Malek’s nerves.
Uthari stood in front of the cell, leaning subtly on a staff. The chest of his tunic was charred, the same as Malek’s own shirt; he’d also taken a lightning bolt to the heart and was also lucky to be alive.
Inside the cell, Yidar rested on his knees, his hands bound behind his back, his chin to his chest as he avoided looking at Uthari. The cuffs that restrained him were made from dragon steel—wherever had Uthari found them? It took a great deal of power to hold a zidarr, but Uthari had clearly planned long ago for the eventuality that it might be necessary. Malek made a mental note of that.
“Have you questioned him?” Malek asked, walking up.
“Not with force.” Uthari spoke calmly, no hint of the frustration and anger he must feel in his voice.
Malek expected punishment for his failures, and doubtless a lecture about showing too much lenience to their archaeologists, but Uthari would give both in private, not in front of witnesses. That was not his way. He never embarrassed his zidarr.
“You will kill me.” Yidar lifted his head, blood from cuts dried on his face and in his hair, and glared at them. “That is the punishment for a zidarr who betrays his master, is it not?” He sneered. “Why should I answer questions when you will kill me anyway?”
“Death for betrayal is in the Code,” Malek said, assuming Uthari would not mind him speaking to Yidar—it was likely he’d called Malek here for the purpose of applying force. “You knew this when you turned on our liege. What prompted you to do it? Surely not money from Zaruk’s spies. Was it a promise of power or a higher position if you switched loyalties to him?”
“I did not switch loyalties. I am not a traitor.”
“Then how do you explain your actions?” It clicked for Malek then. The other ship. Yidar must have been the one to suborn the crew. But why? “Why did you order the Flying Tiger to help you attempt to steal the artifact?”
“Why did you—” Yidar looked at Uthari, “—order the Star Flyer to steal the artifact in the first place? For power. And to travel through a portal to a realm where dragons may still live and to obtain them as allies.”
“I know why I seek the portal,” Uthari said, not looking surprised by this outburst—he’d had more time to think about the betrayal and must have already realized what Yidar had done, “but I doubt our reasons are the same. What would you have done with this power?”
“Establish my own kingdom.” Yidar jerked his chin up. “Be the ruler of my own city with my own human serfs to wait on me. Not to be second-rate to anyone else anymore.” He glared not at Uthari but at Malek.
Malek hadn’t realized he’d been such an oppressive first zidarr that Yidar had come to resent him. Was it only because he was young and ambitious? Or had Malek failed in some way? Later, when Gorsith returned from driving off the last of the attacking ships, Malek would discuss it with him.
“Ambition is understandable,” Uthari said, “but to wish serfs and your own city… These are strange desires for a zidarr who was brought up from his earliest days to obey the Code, to long for nothing except to serve with honor, to admire those who live simply with few belongings.”
“That is what you and all the other kings wish us to want, but only a fool lets himself be brainwashed by such drivel.” Yidar stared at Malek again, though it appeared to be a pitying expression this time instead of a resentful one.
“To learn to desire little except to improve oneself is not an act of brainwashing; instead it grants a man power over himself and his baser instincts. What has throwing off these beliefs given you but the certainty that you require your own kingdom and servants to wipe your ass?” Malek shook his head, sharing his own expression of pity. “Allowing yourself to be moved by such desires only makes you easy to manipulate. Or, in this case, it sounds like you self-immolated without outside interference.”
“Screw you, Malek, you sanctimonious ass.”
Uthari lifted a finger and tilted his head toward the hallway. Malek followed him outside, the door shutting behind them so that Yidar wouldn’t hear their conversation.
“It would be a shame to kill someone I’ve invested so many years of training into,” Uthari said, “but is there any way to regain his loyalty or bring him back into the fold at this point?”
“Likely not. You would have to give him the opportunity to get what he wants.”
“A kingdom? Maybe I should sic him after Zaruk and see what he could do. His reward could be Zaruk’s city.”
Malek snorted. “That would get him killed. Even with Stone Heart dead, Zaruk has more zidarr, and clearly, he has many allies.”
“Yes, and he may soon have more allies after succeeding today.” Uthari grimaced. “Not that I intend to let him keep the portal, mind you. We will get it back.”
Malek’s chest ached, and he longed for a day of rest and recuperation, but he made himself say, “I am prepared to go after it.”
Uthari rubbed his jaw thoughtfully. “I believe you and Gorsith had better stay here until we get the defenses back up and the fleet repaired. We dare not let others see our city or kingdom as weak during this time. But I am also considering how to retaliate. This cannot go without a response, or we shall also be considered weak. And then there is the need to reacquire the artifact—and our archaeologists. I am surprised they chose to flee from us and into the hands of another. Do they believe Zaruk will be more accommodating? He will not give them a suite. Or a zidarr to debate with.” Uthari lifted his brows.
“Apparently, that wasn’t as desirable an offering as one would expect.”
“I told you arguing with women isn’t the way to earn their trust.”
“Should we cross paths again, I will attempt a different tactic with her.” Malek remembered meeting Professor Jadora’s gaze as she flew away on that wreck of a ship. He’d been looking for someone to shoot, even though it would have been a futile gesture born out of the frustration that he’d failed and been too weak to summon the magic necessary to drive the ship back to the castle. She’d had that same wary expression she’d had every time he’d been around her. Granted, he’d been pointing a weapon at her, but he suspected he had failed to win any sort of trust from her. Perhaps if they had not been pitted as enemies from the beginning…
Malek shook his head. For the first time, a request of Uthari’s had been beyond his abilities to deliver.
“Good,” Uthari said. “We will get her back and the artifact as well. I have not accomplished all I’ve accomplished in life by letting setbacks and failures stop me. We lost today only because unforeseen events conspired to complicate the city’s defenses.” He glanced toward the door to Yidar’s cell, but he was probably thinking more of the attack by the artifact than his zidarr’s betrayal.
Malek rubbed his chest. He was certainly thinking of that.
“I believe I will send Yidar after the artifact,” Uthari mused.
An objection sprang to mind, born by a fear that Yidar would hurt Professor Freedar—and possibly kill her son, because of his potential with magic—but Malek halted the protest before it escaped. It wasn’t his place to question his liege, especially when Uthari had been surprisingly patient with him over the day’s failures.
He kept himself to asking a simple, “Oh?”
“Having him out of the city will keep him from scheming up any new ways to flummox me, and he may succeed where you did not.” Uthari’s eyebrow twitched at this first reference to Malek’s failure. “I understand from the female servants that he’s considered quite handsome. Perhaps he will earn the archaeologist’s trust where you were unable to.”
“They do not think I’m handsome?”
“Aloof is the term I hear used most often. But that is as it should be. A zidarr should not be so easily available.”
Malek rubbed his chest again, though he was tempted to rub his head at this conversation. The Code forbade marriage and children, so except for rare dalliances, he’d always kept his distance from women. The thought of needing to win the regard of one—or at least the trust of one—for Uthari still boggled his mind, and he kept thinking his liege would say that was some kind of joke. He understood the professor’s value and how useful she could be in dealing with the artifact—and the boy could be equally useful since he’d figured out how to draw upon its magic—but imagining Malek could bring them to his side by inspiring feelings of loyalty seemed ludicrous.
“I do not believe handsomeness was the problem,” Malek said, attempting to consider the situation logically. “We kidnapped her. To win her trust in such a situation was… a difficult task.”
“We will see if Yidar can accomplish it. If he can, perhaps I will assist him in gaining a kingdom. That ought to keep him loyal—or at least disinterested in conspiring against me.”
“I agree on that point, though we will have to keep a close eye on him.”
“Naturally. I will mage mark him, so I know where he is, can observe him at all times, and can punish him remotely if need be.”
Malek nodded. For most of their kind, a mage mark was little more than a magical beacon, calling attention to the recipient, but Uthari was far more powerful than the typical mage, and he could do things that even Malek couldn’t. Monitoring Yidar would be wise. For his younger colleague’s sake, Malek hoped he didn’t try to betray Uthari again.
“He will get only one second chance, assuming he accepts my proposal. I will go offer it to him now.” Uthari placed his hand on the door but paused to look back before pushing it open. “While we are repairing the city and rebuilding its defenses, I want you to continue researching that artifact. When we recapture it, I want to know how to use it immediately, so it is not sitting in our courtyard, tempting enemies—and supposedly loyal allies.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
“Also, find a couple of our best ships that have little damage. Yidar should have a chance at catching up with the enemy ships and acquiring the artifact. It will be much easier to recapture before it is protected within Zarlesh’s walls.”
“Yes, Your Majesty.”
After Uthari left, Malek considered whether the archaeologists and the artifact were truly on their way to Zaruk’s sky city. Oh, he had no doubt that the mercenaries who’d helped steal it had been given orders to bring it back, but would the professor and her son have gone willingly with them if they believed they would end up under guard in another wizard’s castle?
As requested, Malek would do research. He had made a copy of all the notes in the late husband’s journal before returning it to Freedar, and he had other resources at his disposal. But his first priority would be to learn where that ship was heading. If it was not on its way to Zaruk’s city, Malek would find out. And if Yidar failed, Malek would go himself and reclaim it and the archaeologists for Uthari. To serve his master was his duty, and he would not fail again.
As the Dauntless flew south toward the equator, a warm breeze whispered through the cracks in the hull, stirring the muggy air in the small cabin Jadora had been given.
She slept fitfully on the hard bunk, worried about pursuit, worried about Jak, and worried about the captain imprisoning them and taking the artifact back to his master. When she wasn’t doing that, she wondered if they had any chance of finding the location where the portal could be opened before all those who wanted it for themselves caught up with them. Even if they succeeded, would they find help on the other side of the portal? Or would they go through a magical gateway to a world devoid of dragons or anyone else who could help them? Species went extinct on Torvil; what if the same had happened to the dragons on their home world? What if that was the reason they had never returned?
As she mulled, Jadora started to feel that she wasn’t alone. She peered around the dark cabin, her mind conjuring visions of assassins springing out to kill her. She slid her fingers under the ratty pillow, wrapping them around vials. Though the ship’s stores had been sparsely supplied, she’d found a few chemicals she could turn into weapons.
Seconds passed, and no assassins sprang for her throat, but she couldn’t shake the feeling that she wasn’t alone. Could mages turn invisible?
With her free hand, she reached for a lantern mounted to the wall beside the bed. It was powered by magic rather than flame, and the touch of a finger caused it to brighten enough to make out the sparse furnishings built into the little cabin. And to see a man in the shadowy corner beside the door.
She almost screamed. She did pull out the vials.
He gazed at her blandly, not reacting to the threat—or maybe not perceiving them as a threat. No, she realized numbly. It was Malek. He knew all about her vials by now.
“How did you get here?” Jadora lifted her hand to throw, her fingers shaking as her heart pounded so hard she felt it.
“I am zidarr,” he said simply, as if that meant he could fly or transport himself a thousand miles with his magic. He tilted his head, the angle letting her see the fresh wounds on his face from his battles. The front of his shirt was shredded, the skin flayed away, showing blackened flesh where the portal’s lightning bolt had struck. “I am not a threat to you.”
“Oh, I’m pretty sure you are.” She didn’t mean physically, though he could certainly overpower her with magic or might. If she threw one of the vials, he would easily evade it. She slumped against the wall and lowered her meager weapons.
Wait, but was he physically here? When it came to Malek, she wouldn’t deem anything impossible, but he’d been so injured that he couldn’t possibly have left his city to give chase right away, and she had never heard anything to suggest that mages—even the most powerful wizards—could transport themselves across the world. Maybe he was communicating with her telepathically—making her believe he was in the cabin with her.
“You are not traveling to Zaruk’s city.” It was a statement, not a question.
“Are you sure?”
“I am. Where are you going?”
And that was why he was here—physically or in her mind. He meant to fly after them and get the artifact back—get her back. But first, he had to figure out where they were heading.
“Just taking a little trip. How are you?” Jadora asked inanely, trying to think of a way to evade any telepathic probing he was doing. Could he do that from afar? She’d heard mages had to be close to read minds. “I’m glad you, uh, survived your battle with that other zidarr.”
“Are you?”
“Yes.” If only because Stone Heart would have been commanding this ship, had he survived, and Jak never would have been able to bluff him. And because, if she had to deal with Uthari’s people again, she would rather deal with Malek than Tonovan or someone even worse.
“Interesting.”
“I strive to be so. But I’m trying to sleep now, so if you could return to whatever you’re supposed to be doing back in Utharika, that would be excellent.” She watched his face, hoping he would confirm that he wasn’t truly here. She supposed she could verify that herself by walking over and poking him, but she preferred to keep space between them. Not that a little distance would matter if he chose to do something to her.
“Tell me where you’re going.” He didn’t confirm anything.
“I can’t.”
“No?” He walked toward her, and fear shot through her body.
She opened her mouth to scream, but something compelled her to stay silent, to tell nobody he was here. He compelled her to do that.
Malek stopped at the edge of her bed, close enough to touch her. Her back was already against the wall, so she couldn’t scoot any farther away from him. She found herself looking at his scorched chest instead of up into his eyes. It was amazing that he’d survived that injury.
“Tell me,” he repeated softly, “and I’ll see to it that you aren’t harmed.”
“Implying that I will be harmed if I don’t tell you?”
“Not by my hand.”
“Is Uthari sending someone else after us?” She imagined Tonovan and grimaced.
Malek lifted a hand to the side of her head. It was a slow movement, as if reaching out to pet a wild animal, and she wrestled between the urge to shrink back and to see what he did. But there was no back—she would only clunk her head against the wall.
“Have you been reading The Mind Way?” He brushed his fingers along the side of her head.
And she felt it. It was real. He was real.
“I haven’t had a lot of reading time,” she croaked, “but I will. Trust me, I will.”
“Good.” He lowered his hand. “You’ll need it.”
Malek stepped back, as if he’d gotten what he wanted. Had he? She hadn’t been thinking about the portal or their destination—she didn’t even know their destination beyond the continent—but who knew what he could pluck from her thoughts?
He stepped back again and faded into the shadows. She squinted into the gloom, but the cabin grew darker and darker until she jerked up in bed with a start.
The lantern was off, as if it had been off all along. Had she dreamed that? Or had he somehow sent his thoughts to her and invaded her sleep? Did the zidarr have the power to do that? Across hundreds of miles?
Jadora rubbed her face with a shaking hand. If so, he might have gotten what he wanted. Their destination.
She slumped back against her pillow. In the morning, she would warn the others that Uthari’s people were coming for them. Whether Malek’s visit had been a dream of her own conjuring or not, she was certain she was right.
THE END
Afterword
AFTERWORD
Thank you for picking up Kingdoms at War. I hope you enjoyed the adventure and will consider posting a review.
Book 2, Art of the Hunt, is available now.
If you want to be notified when I publish new fantasy novels, please consider signing up for my newsletter. You’ll also receive my Beginnings starter set (this includes the Book 1s for four of my fantasy series).
Thanks for reading!

########


A Demon’s Promise
Chapter 1
CHAPTER 1
The sensation of being watched clung to me like a spider web, invisible threads bristling the back of my neck and down my spine. I brushed my fingers across my shoulders, as if I could drag the feeling off and flick it away.
It was ridiculous, of course. Not just ridiculous to think I could pull the sensation off so easily, as if it really was the strand of a web, but it was even more absurd to feel it in the first place. Except when accidents launched my freak-flag high, there was nothing stare-worthy about me. And right now, said flag was tucked safely out of sight.
Yet the hairs on the back of my neck stood on end at the feeling as I visited my favorite Washington, D.C., monuments for likely the last time. I sat on the stone steps of one and gazed over the Potomac River, enjoying the peace just before sunset. Well, trying to enjoy it anyway.
I blamed the ominous feeling on my unruly imagination, with it being twilight and the sky looking so foreboding. It provided the perfect backdrop for one of my stories. The sun hung low—an eerie, orange ball glowing behind a shroud of haze, a column of steel-blue cloud rising around it, threatening to snuff it out. I envisioned something not-quite-human watching from the shadows, waiting to begin its hunt under the cover of darkness, and I imagined the kickass heroine who also watched, ready to protect the human population.
That’s all it is, my fascination with mythical creatures getting the best of me, I told myself. Uh-huh. Right.
Surrendering hope for a peaceful farewell, I hurried to the closest Metro station. The feeling of being followed stuck with me on the train ride home, but at my stop across the river in Arlington, I forgot the sinister sensation. A group of teens a few years younger than me and dressed in all black stood near the top of the escalator as I stepped off. I’d witnessed before their favorite summer activity: harassing people exiting the Metro station. I usually took the elevator to circumvent them, but had been too distracted tonight. When I saw the elderly couple they heckled now, I purposely walked right by them, distracting them, as expected.
“Hey, there’s the freak who heals,” one of them said loudly to the others. “It’s s’posed to be really sick to watch.”
“Hey, freak, got any tricks to show us?” another called.
I gave them a sideways glance, acknowledging the boys and diverting their attention completely from the senior citizens. They were so predictable. Focused all on me, they continued their jeers, and although I’d asked for them, they still stung. But I’d brought this on myself—I’d been a klutz with the Bunsen burner in Chemistry, and my lab partner saw my skin heal almost instantly. One of those times the freak-flag came out. Being able to heal might have been cool if it weren’t for the way people reacted. Kids hassled me about it every day the last two months before graduation, but if I didn’t let them get to me, they were usually just annoying. Usually.
I hadn’t expected these guys to follow me.
My pace picked up as I walked through the bright commercial district and turned down the street for home four blocks away. Night had crept its way in during my ride from downtown to the suburbs, and except for a few streetlights, darkness blanketed the residential area. Footsteps behind me echoed my own. I quickened my pace, hoping they’d give up. Two more days. That’s all. Just two more days, and we’re out of here.
“C’mon, we just wanna know if it’s true.” The boy’s pubescent voice cracked twice as he spoke.
“Yeah, just show us. It doesn’t hurt, right?”
I glanced over my shoulder. Three boys followed me, and I caught the glint of a blade in one of their hands. Their plan to satisfy their curiosity—slice me open and watch the wound heal—made my stomach clench. What is wrong with people? Of course, it hurts! Bungalow-style homes lined the street, each with an empty front porch. Not a single person sat outside on this summer’s evening. No one to witness whatever was about to go down. My heartbeat notched up, pumping adrenaline through my veins.
Pop!
Crack!
Complete darkness suddenly engulfed the street. The streetlights along the entire block had blacked out at the sounds. I inhaled sharply while halting mid-stride, and the footsteps behind me ceased, too.
“What the hell?” Surprise and fear filled the boy’s question.
A couple had appeared out of nowhere, three houses down, standing in the middle of the street. The cloudy night made it too dark to see their features, and I could only tell their genders by their shapes. The woman’s high-heeled shoes clicked on the pavement as they walked toward me. The man, big and burly, pulled his shirt over his head and handed it to the woman. Without breaking stride, he took off one shoe and then the other, leaving him with only pants. What the . . . ?
I considered my options. The woman and her half-naked companion blocked my way home, but I couldn’t just raise my chin and hustle past them, pretending they meant no harm. Because I knew they did, and instinct told me the self-defense moves I’d learned would do little good against them, especially him. Which meant I stood trapped between the boys with the knife and the bizarre couple. My gut told me the knife was less threatening.
“Boo!” The woman cackled as the boys took off running. As she and the man closed in on me, the alarms screamed in my head.
Evil! Bad! Run! Go!
My sixth sense had never been so frightened, but I couldn’t move. Dread, and morbid curiosity, paralyzed my body. My heart hammered against my ribs.
The couple stopped their advance several yards away. The woman studied me as if assessing a rare animal, while the man lifted his face to the sky, his whole body trembling. My gaze darted upward to follow his to the thin, gauzy clouds sliding across a full moon. The woman cackled again, the sound of pure evil. Real fear sucked the air from my lungs.
“Alexis, at last,” the woman said, her voice raspy, like a pack-a-day smoker’s. “We’ll get such a nice reward for you.”
My ears pricked. “Do I know you?”
She grinned, a wicked glint in her eyes. “Not yet.”
Or ever, if I can help it.
I turned and ran. My pulse throbbed in my head as breaths tore through my chest. My mind couldn’t focus, couldn’t make sense of this strange couple and what they wanted with me, but my body kept moving. The bright lights of the commercial area I’d left minutes ago beaconed me to their safety.
The woman abruptly appeared in front of me before I was halfway down the street. The shock sent me hurling to the ground, and my head smacked hard against the pavement. Stars shot across my eyes. My hands burned from asphalt scrapes. Fighting the blackness trying to swallow my vision, I rolled onto my side, gasping for breath. A sticky wetness pooled under my temple. Why is this happening?
My eyes rolled up to the woman, who now pointed what looked like a stick at me. Her lips moved silently as she waved a pattern in the air, and I suddenly felt pinned to the ground, my muscles unable to move though nothing visible restrained me. Panic flailed below the surface of my paralyzed body, making my breaths quick and shallow. I was done for. They could do anything they wanted with me now. There was no escape.
My vision faltered. Now two women stood over me, two sticks pointed at me. Two moons wavered behind them. I didn’t know if fear or the head injury caused everything to slide apart and together again, but I squeezed my eyes shut to make it stop.
But I couldn’t close my ears, couldn’t block out the spine-tingling gnarl. My eyes popped open with terror, expecting to see a wild beast, but the feral sound came from the man. His eyes rolled back in his head, showing only whites. His hands clenched into fists. His muscles strained, the veins protruding like ropes along the bulges, and his body shook violently until the edges of his shape became a blur.
“I can’t hold it,” he growled.
“Then don’t,” the woman said. “Don’t fight it. It’s time!”
A ripping sound tore through the night as the man lurched forward, his skin shredding. A gelatinous liquid spurt out of him like an exploding jar of jelly. His pants tore into ribbons as his body lengthened and grew. The shape of his limbs transformed. His face elongated, his nose and mouth becoming a . . .  Holy crap! A snout! I gasped, a scream stuck in my throat. By the time his front . . . legs . . . hit the ground, fur covered his body. He was no longer man. He was— A freakin’ wolf?
The beast moved closer, a low growl in its throat. Its stench of decaying corpses and rotting leaves overwhelmed my hypersensitive sense of smell, the sharp but sweet odor gagging me and forcing me to breathe through my mouth.
Pop! Another woman appeared, again out of nowhere, with pale skin and white hair that shimmered in the moonlight.
“I smell blood,” she said, her voice a flutter of wind chimes, as she made a wide circle around me. “Mmm . . . delicious blood.”
The scrapes on my hands had already healed, but not the cut on my head. It must have been deep enough for a normal person to need stitches. For me, it could take ten minutes to heal. So my blood was still fresh.
I could only smell the wolf’s rancid odor as it hovered over me.
“Back off, mutt,” the white-blonde snarled as she stepped closer. “This is too important for the likes of you.”
“How dare you!” Stick-woman accused. “We had her first.”
“Alexis is mine. Always mine!”
What the hell? What do they want with me? Cold fear slid down my spine, and my fight-or-flight instinct kicked into high gear, though I could do neither. I couldn’t so much as twitch a muscle.
Pop! My heart jumped into my throat as another man materialized in the darkness and strode toward me. Seriously? How many more could there be? The wolf growled at the newcomer, and both women hissed. Goose bumps crawled along my skin.
The man stepped in front of me, placing himself between me and the others.
Good! Very good! Safe! My sense slightly calmed me.
“You’re alone?” the blonde asked. “Ha! You haven’t a chance.”
The man twisted his hand behind his back, and a breeze swirled around me. My ears popped, and the air itself tasted cleaner, refreshing after the stench of the wolf. At the same time, the beast lunged at my protector, who raised his hands and thrust them outward. The creature flew back as if blasted by some kind of invisible force. The wolf hit the pavement somewhere outside my line of sight, but I heard the thud and a whimper, both sounds muffled as though passing through a thick barrier. I blinked several times, disbelieving what I’d just witnessed.
The women hissed again. The first one raised her stick, pointing it at my protector, while the blonde took a step toward me.
With a faint pop, another person appeared between the two women and my human shield. Where the hell were these people coming from? How? The women responded to the new arrival in complete contrast to the first guy—their teeth gleamed in the moonlight as their lips spread into grins and their eyes glinted with appreciation.
And it was easy to see why. My protector couldn’t possibly stand up against this second man. The new one was taller, broader in the shoulders, thicker in the torso and arms than my protector, who was now out-numbered and out-muscled. The second man took a single step toward us. I didn’t dare look up at him, afraid of what I might see, but I felt his eyes rake over me in such a palpable way, I could practically feel welts rising on my flesh. My trembling turned to quakes.
My sixth sense continued shouting conflicting alarms, everyone’s intentions strong. Good and Evil both screamed in my head, and I couldn’t tell which this new person was.
But then he turned to face the women, and their expressions darkened. And I knew. He was on our side. I swatted down a leap of hope, though. The attackers still out-numbered my protectors.
The wolf, now back on all fours, stalked toward us. The fur on the back of its neck rose, and hunger shone in its reddish-orange eyes as its lips curled back in a snarl, baring fangs longer than my little finger. Its pace quickened, my heart galloping with it. It lunged once more. I tried to scream. My constricted throat only allowed a whimper.
Then the wolf flew backwards again and fell to the ground a second time. The bigger man’s hand hung in the air, palm straight out facing the wolf, as if he’d hit it, but I never saw the contact.
Both women eyed me with obvious greed. Then their eyes shifted back to my brawny protector, and confusion and even fear flickered across their faces. He turned his hand toward them. Their eyes widened, looking as terrified as I felt.
And then they disappeared.
“I’ve got Alexis. Take care of that one.” The lankier man turned toward me, his face hidden in shadow while his hand waved in front of my eyes, his fingers curling inward. “The disco.”
The phrase came as a whisper, immediately lost to a wolfish howl behind us that diminished into a human cry of pain.
And then everything went black.
* * *
“Alexis.” Mom’s voice, soft and distant, pulled me out of unconsciousness. “Alexis, honey, get your behind up.”
“Huh?” I mumbled, disoriented.
“We need to go.”
I forced my eyes open after blinking several times against the brightness of daylight. Dressed in jeans and a silk tank, Mom knelt on the floor next to me, where I was wrapped in a blanket, a pillow under my head. How did I get here? The last thing I remembered was the word “disco” whispered in my ear . . . but it had nothing to do with funky music, mirrored balls, or dancing.
As an image of a dark street and strange people filled my mind instead, the fear returned, and I sat up with a gasp. Pain shot from the base of my skull to the backs of my eyelids, nearly knocking me back down. I pressed my fingers to my temples. Had that been real? Or a dream? I examined my hands. No scrapes. I touched my head. No bump or cut. That meant little, though. The injuries would have been healed by now anyway.
“What happened last night?” My voice came out as a rasp.
“Hmm?”
I started to tell her, and her brows pressed together as I began with the boys and the knife.
“I can’t believe how mean kids can be,” she interrupted, but then she frowned. “And I can’t believe you taunted them. We should have moved after the burn.”
I shook my head, just once. It hurt too much to move more than that. She misinterpreted the movement, though, thinking I still protested her offer to move to avoid my humiliation. I hadn’t wanted to leave and change schools so close to graduation, but that had been months ago. It didn’t matter anymore.
“I know,” she said. “We’re moving now, and you can have a fresh start. You’re starting a new chapter, college⁠—”
“No, that’s not it. There was this couple in the street, too. And the man . . . he changed into a . . . a werewolf. And the woman—I swear she was a witch and put a spell on me!”
Mom’s eyebrows arched. “Honey, do you realize what you’re saying?”
I did. And it sounded ludicrous. In fact, in the morning light, I knew the memory was more than ludicrous—it was absolutely impossible. But it had felt so real.
Confused, I squinted at her face. We had similar features—chestnut hair, almond-shaped, mahogany eyes, smooth, light-olive skin—but hers were inhumanly perfect. Not that I was ugly, but nobody in this world could compare to Mom. Her beauty was on a completely different plane than the rest of us. So while she looked like an angel, I looked like her very human daughter. Well, sister. Because she also looked, impossibly, twenty-six years old. Mom didn’t age. One of her quirks. By the time I was fifteen, we had to tell people she was Sophia my sister because she looked too young to pass as my mother. Since I rarely needed parental control anymore, we pretty much behaved like sisters, too. In a she-was-the-older-and-bossier-one kind of way.
“You have the wildest dreams,” she teased with a smile while nodding and patting my arm.
“But—” I pulled my arm from her, knowing she used one of her other quirks, what I called her power of persuasion. She had an uncanny way of convincing people to see and do things her way.
“It was a dream, Alexis. We don’t have time to discuss it.” An edge had come to her voice.
Right. A dream. It has to be. Something deep inside, past the throbbing in my head, denied that theory, but there was no other explanation. Witches and werewolves . . . people appearing and disappearing . . . How can that be real? Logic told me it couldn’t but . . . my intuition knew something had happened. Right?
I broke my gaze from hers to hide my denial, not in the mood to challenge her now. My head raged, feeling like someone had jabbed knives around my brain while I slept. Also, I’d seen that stony expression on her face before: Drop it, the look said.
I glanced around the living room and noticed the emptiness for the first time—no furniture, no boxes stacked against the walls, nothing. “Where is everything?”
“Packed in the moving truck.” She sounded nonchalant, as if it made perfect sense.
“What?”
It didn’t make sense at all. That wasn’t the plan. Mom was supposed to break up with her boyfriend last night, and we would pack the truck today and leave for Florida tomorrow. Why the sudden rush? She didn’t believe my story, so that couldn’t be it. It had to be the boyfriend. It was almost always the boyfriends.
“We need to get out of here,” she said. “Now.”
I knew the tone and moved as quickly as my aching head allowed. Our moves always felt like forced escapes. Sometimes we moved because of an accident, but most often because of the boyfriends. Though this move had actually been planned, it now had the familiar feeling we were once again making an escape. At least this time I knew where we headed and why.
My head still felt sluggish as we traveled south on I-95, but once the drugged feeling lifted and I could think clearly, I analyzed last night. People had tried to hurt me and possibly wanted to kill me. I think. Maybe the werewolf and the witch and the other bizarre parts weren’t real. Maybe I hit my head harder than I realized and imagined those aspects. Or maybe the real events of . . . something . . . mashed up with an actual dream, and I had everything confused. But I was certain I was attacked. Fairly certain, anyway. And the way the white-blonde said I was “hers” told me it wasn’t the last time I’d see her. If she’s even real.
I blew out a sigh as I stared at the passing landscape. My memory felt like a ripped-up photo taped back together but missing vital pieces. Some details, like the wolf’s terrifying eyes, were clear, while others, like everyone else’s faces, remained blank. This made me question the reality of it all, but I couldn’t so easily dismiss the fear that was deeply embedded into my memory. If that had been a dream, it’d been one hell of a night terror.
On the other hand, if someone had truly attacked me, Mom would know, and she wouldn’t have dismissed me so easily. She’d never been the hovering type, but because of our history, she was protective in her own way. Even now, as I moved south for college, she followed, giving up her job in corporate sales because, she’d said, she was ready for a change. She’d been in sales for as long as I could remember and was quite successful at it. With that power-of-persuasion quirk she had going on, she could sell a truckload of beef to a vegan. But she had always wanted to own a bookstore, and there happened to be one for sale just ten miles from the university I’d chosen. Most people my age would be aghast at their mother following them, but I was actually okay with it. She was my best friend, after all. My only friend for years. That had been her reasoning, too—she’d even joked about taking classes with me—but now I questioned her true motivations.
Hundreds of miles passed under the truck’s wheels before I built the courage to ask. “Are there people who want to hurt us? I mean, because of who we are?”
She gave me a sideways glance. “I would not let anything happen to you.”
“I know, but if there are people out there, shouldn’t I know? Don’t you think it’s time I knew things about us?” I braced myself for her reaction.
She opened her mouth, paused, then closed it again. The corner of her lips turned down in a frown. “I can’t tell you, honey. You know that. Not until the Ang’dora.”
Right. The Ang’dora. The enigmatic “change” that was somehow connected with our quirks and everything that made us weird. I knew little about it. I knew little about us.
“Are you asking because of your dream last night?” she asked. “Because you know it’s⁠—”
I cut her off. “Yeah, I know. Not real.”
I wanted to believe her. That was the easy and safe explanation. But was there more to it?
Mom held our secrets tightly, even from me, and I’d given up pleading for information a few years ago. She had told me many times she was bound to a promise made when I was an infant: I couldn’t know our secrets until I went through the Ang’dora and became more like her. Whatever that meant. I couldn’t even know what kind of changes there would be. This had been the one sore subject between us for years—the only time we ever argued throughout middle and much of high school. Then she finally told me her own mother had abandoned her when she was a teen to protect those same secrets, and if I didn’t leave her alone about it, she’d be forced to do the same.
I supposed that meant they were important ones, but when other families’ skeletons included domestic violence, sexual abuse, or various addictions, ours seemed rather innocuous. After all, we simply had some weird quirks. Nothing dangerous to ourselves or others. Most of the time anyway. Not knowing what more there was, if anything, could be annoying and frustrating, but if I tucked the thought of our oddities into a locked drawer in my mind and pretended we were normal, I forgot to be annoyed and frustrated. And I much preferred to live behind the façade of normalcy than fight with my mother and best friend. Or worse, never see her again and be left completely alone in the world.
Besides, in all honesty, I liked living behind that smokescreen. More than anything, even more than knowing, I ached for a normal, stable life—a career as an author, true love, and a big family with a home of our own, picket fence and all.
Even so, the renewed curiosity lingered.
I hated snooping behind Mom’s back, but her refusal to explain left no other options, and the move presented an easy opportunity for poking around. The new house was more like a cottage, but the attached garage in back had been converted into a room large enough for a bed, my desk, and a small living area, along with its own bathroom and a separate entrance. Mom thought it a perfect layout to give me privacy and independence without having to worry about on-campus housing costs or rent and utilities. After setting my place up, I volunteered to unpack the rest of the house while Mom prepared to open the bookstore. When she took me up on the offer to do her room, I knew I wouldn’t discover anything she didn’t want me to. So by the time the first day of classes came around, I knew nothing more, but I had a new plan.
That was the day the dreams stopped. Until then, I’d repeatedly dreamt of that strange night—a recurring nightmare, I supposed. But it always ended on a good note, with one of my heroes standing over me. Not the lanky one, but the other one. I still never saw his face, just a shadowy figure, but I knew it was him. Who are you? my dream-self asked every time. I never received an answer, and he stopped visiting my dreams the first day of classes.
Perhaps because a very real guy entered my dreams . . . and my life.
Chapter 2
CHAPTER 2
I dropped two classes before school even started. It was Mom’s idea. I had a novel to write. The witch and the werewolf may not have been real, but I hadn’t stopped thinking about them and eventually developed my own story about their romance. I became obsessed with writing it, and when I told Mom the synopsis, she said school could wait, the book couldn’t. Not exactly something I’d expect to hear from her, but she had her own sixth sense. Mine told me if people were unusually good or bad, as if I picked up on a brainwave revealing their underlying intentions. Mom could feel truths, and she felt the truth my book would be published. She even claimed, mysteriously, that it needed to be written.
On the first day of the semester, with several hours between my morning classes and my one night class, I seized the opportunity to do some research and planted my butt in a hard plastic chair at a library computer station. I’d finally concluded that all I could investigate about us were our quirks—I knew nothing else about us. I found a somewhat promising trail on the internet and spent the entire afternoon researching telepaths.
After going down plenty of internet rabbit holes, I stared at my notes and felt like an idiot. Telepaths? I seriously wasted hours on telepaths? I shook my head at the absurdity. Mom and I had peculiarities, but we certainly couldn’t read minds. Besides, telepaths, well, didn’t exist. Did they?
I sighed and glanced at the clock, then bolted out of my seat, grabbing my bag and papers. Communications 101 started in seven minutes. I rushed through the second floor, dodging tables and students, and practically ran down the stairs and into the lobby.
Evil? Good! (evil?) No, very good!
My sense screamed like a banshee, surprising me.
I stopped dead in my tracks, and my eyes scanned the area, but everyone looked perfectly normal, going about their business of checking out books at the nearby front desk. Nothing seemed out of the ordinary. And the alarms baffled me in another way: my sense had never questioned itself before, never sounded so . . . confused. What’s going on? Who is it? I inhaled a deep breath to settle myself. My sense had landed on good, and that was all that mattered. And I didn’t have time to worry about anything else. I had to go, or I’d be late. Not the kind of first impression I wanted to make on the professor.
Taking off again, I rounded the corner to the door and slammed right into a large, hard body. Sweet and tangy. Mmm . . . Having a powerful sense of smell was often unpleasant, but it was worth suffering through bad body odor and rotten garbage for this. He smelled delicious. But he sounded annoyed or angry as a low growl rumbled in his chest.
“Sorry,” I muttered.
I looked up to see the face belonging to such yumminess. Whoa! Talk about yummy! He was absolutely gorgeous. Too gorgeous. My gaze fell away immediately, and my cheeks heated. I bent down to gather the papers I dropped—and so did he. To complete my humiliation, I shocked him with static electricity when our fingers touched. I blushed harder. He chuckled quietly.
“Alexis Ames,” he murmured under his breath. If it hadn’t been my own name, I wouldn’t have even understood—he said it so quietly. His thumb underlined my name on the class schedule he handed back to me. I took it, mumbled “thank you,” and bolted.
I hurried across campus, slipped inside the classroom with a minute to spare, and dropped into the closest open seat, where a syllabus already waited on the desk. The instructor stood at the head of the room, scrutinizing the clock above the door. He started his introductions at six o’clock sharp and rudely rebuked a couple of students who arrived late, commenting that tardiness was a sign of disrespect. As if his tone was not. Note to self: Be on time for this one.
I’d felt the burn of eyes on me when I walked in the door and took my seat. I’d dismissed it then, but as I sat there, trying to listen as the professor monotonously listed his credentials, I could feel the weight again, making the back of my neck tingle. I glanced over my shoulder, pretending to check out the classroom to find the source. Oops. I was caught. But I couldn’t tear my eyes away.
Wow. Beautiful. That was all I could think through the haze filling my brain, obscuring any other thoughts. Although some of my favorite authors described their heroes that way, I never understood how a guy could be considered beautiful until now. He was stunningly attractive like Mom was—far beyond what should be allowed for any human.
His eyes held mine until I finally came to my senses and pulled away. He smiled as I slid my gaze to the front of the room. And then it hit me. Holy hell! Why me? I had barely glanced at him the first time, but I knew without a doubt: he was the same guy I’d run into like an idiot less than five minutes ago. Apparently, he recognized me, too, and found it funny. Slipping lower in my seat, I wholeheartedly wished my short list of quirks included the ability to disappear.
“Most of your projects will be done as teams,” the professor droned. “You’ll be with the same team throughout the semester, so act like grown-ups and work out any differences. Your team number is in the upper-right corner of the first page of your syllabus. Your first project is due next week, so get into your groups now to make introductions and get started.”
Based on his instructions of where teams should gather, I didn’t have to move. Two girls—one a cute, girl-next-door blonde and the other a scowling, black-haired Goth—and two guys joined me in our designated section of the room.
Including Mr. Beautiful.
Of course. Just my luck.
He was the last to join us, after switching his syllabus with one on an empty desk. When he headed our way, his athletic build straining against his shirt, even Ms. Grumpy Goth straightened up and smiled. But then I caught a quick, but odd reaction from the other three when Mr. Beautiful nodded at each of us as he took a seat. They seemed to wither in their chairs while something flickered across their eyes. A slight smile played on his lips when he looked at me last, and I couldn’t figure out what the others saw because I didn’t notice anything. Well, I did notice something, but nothing warranting that kind of reaction. Was it simply because he looked a little older than the rest of us? His larger size? The reason must have been benign, because my sense remained quiet.
Then I realized there was something—a strange nudge in the back of my mind. I could barely introduce myself before I zoned out through the other introductions and tried unsuccessfully to determine the nudge’s meaning.
During a break halfway through the three-hour class, I bought a soda and wandered outside. The hot, heavy air wasn’t exactly refreshing, but it was a nice break from the closed up, conditioned air inside. The sun had officially set, and the sky was still a pinkish-purple in the west, the tops of two palm trees silhouetted against it. A couple of people sat on the steps, talking. I walked down to the sidewalk and leaned against a lamppost, sipping my drink.
“Alexis, right?” a silky, sexy voice asked behind me, making me jump and slosh soda over my hand.
I turned to find Mr. Beautiful coming down the last step. Of course he would sound lovely. I already knew he smelled good, too. Yep. He strode over to me, and I could really take in the scents. Hmmm . . . sweet yet musky, like mangos and papayas, citrusy like lime, and spicy like . . . sage, I think . . . and the yummiest hint of man. My wacky sense of smell was not only stronger than normal, but also allowed me to pick out the individual layers of a complex scent. His was natural—it didn’t have the chemical undertone like cologne or soaps did—a fresh fragrance, making me think of sitting in the sun on a warm day.
“Uh, yeah,” I muttered. The lamp over us cast its light directly on his spellbinding face, making my mind foggy and unable to form coherent words.
It should be illegal for a guy to be this attractive. Besides how tall he stood, towering at least a foot over my five-two, I noticed his hazel eyes first. They pulled me into their staggering beauty, with a wide ring of emerald green on the outside of the irises and a smattering of brown around the pupils. They were fringed with such long, dark lashes that it was unfair they were on a guy. His facial features were flawless—a square jaw, full lips, and a golden suntan—better than any movie star or model. Sandy brown hair, longer on top and streaked by the sun, topped off his perfection.
As I stared, a slow smile stretched across his face and reached his eyes, where tiny gold flecks in the brown seemed to actually sparkle, like when the sun hits gold flakes in a mining pan. My brain slid out the exit door, and my insides puddled into a hot, gooey mess in my lower abdomen. Get. A. Grip!
I blinked as I tried to remember his name. He had to have introduced himself to the group, but I must have been really focused on that mind nudge, because I drew a blank.
“I’m Tristan . . . in case you didn’t catch it.”
I nodded, pretending to remember. “Yeah, nice to meet you, Tristan. I’m sorry about running into you earlier.”
“I’m not,” he murmured so quietly, I probably wasn’t supposed to have heard.
We both stood there awkwardly . . . well, I felt awkward, anyway. I expected him to leave, but, strangely, he didn’t.
“So . . . how was your first day of classes?” he finally asked.
I looked up at him in surprise. Why are you talking to me? No one talks to me.
My throat tightened as I tried to swallow before managing to squeak out, “Fine, I guess. You?”
“This is my only class today, and so far, it’s perfect.” He chuckled, as if there were some underlying meaning to his answer.
“Lucky. This is my third.”
“Busy day.” Another moment of awkward silence passed before he tried to keep the pathetic conversation going. “This is my only class this semester, actually. Too much other stuff going on to take a full load right now.”
I told him I could relate, and for some reason, babbled through my entire schedule, my hand flitting anxiously between twirling the tab of my soda can and tugging at my hair.
“Women’s studies, huh?” He lifted an eyebrow, a gleam in his eyes. “Maybe I should look into that one. Sounds . . . interesting.”
I laughed, but it came out more as a squeal. “It’s almost all girls . . . but I’m sure they wouldn’t kick you out.”
Oh my god. Did I really say that out loud? Fire lit in my cheeks. He laughed, the pleasurable sound making my heart flip. This guy would be my undoing.
After we returned to our seats, I struggled to concentrate through the rest of class, mentally replaying the two-minute conversation with Tristan and chastising myself for acting like a schoolgirl with her first crush.
“Which dorm are you in?” the blond girl-next-door asked me after class. I was pretty sure someone had called her Carlie.
“I don’t. I live off campus, with my sister.”
“Oh, too bad.” She sounded genuinely disappointed. “I thought we could walk back together, maybe hang out. I guess I’ll see you Wednesday afternoon for our team meeting.”
“Yeah, see you then.” I thought maybe college was different than high school. People were actually friendly.
As soon as she left, though, prickles of fear trailed down my spine. I’d have to walk to my car alone in the dark, and that scared me more than it should. I was probably extra jumpy from my sense’s false alarm earlier, but it felt like the opportune time and place for an attack. Of course, I’d been fine since the move, and my attackers probably didn’t know where I lived now, but I had no guarantees. They’d found me once. They could find me again.
If they even existed.
They don’t. It wasn’t real. Get over it. I repeated the mantra I’d been using to convince myself as I stuffed my books in my bag and retrieved my keys. I gripped them with their points jutting between my knuckles to use as a weapon, clutched the bag’s strap in my other hand, and inhaled a deep breath.
“I’ll walk you out to the parking lot,” Tristan offered, slinging his own backpack over his shoulder. He glanced at my fist full of keys. “You shouldn’t be alone on campus at night.”
I exhaled with relief. “That’d be great.”
Though I’d just met him, I felt safe with Tristan. Not that I wanted him or anyone else involved, but I hoped those strangers wouldn’t try to attack with other people around—grown people, not boys with little pocket knives. Yeah, because those monsters are so real? Forget about it already.
As we walked in silence, I wondered what was wrong with this guy. There had to be something for him to show such interest in me. Were people really this nice for no reason? Because I’d yet to meet them. Of course, I was usually the one avoiding everyone else, only because I knew there would be a negative reaction at some point. So why waste our time? But Tristan . . . I didn’t want to avoid him. Something inside me had clicked with him already, like a missing piece settling into place.
I knew I was making a mistake, setting myself up for disappointment . . . or worse. Guys who even had a fraction of his looks could pick any girl, throw her a bone and she’d do anything for him—like his homework. That was the only reason they talked to freaks like me . . . unless they thought we were an easy score.
I’d experienced both, but didn’t want to think that way about Tristan. It wasn’t fair, considering I’d only just met him. But if either were true, he’d be the one disappointed. For now, I’d give him the benefit of the doubt and pretend like it was perfectly normal for him to be talking to me. Again.
Had I mentioned my preference for living in a fantasy world . . . and that my personal fantasy was to be normal? Sheesh. I was hopeless.
“So you live close by?” he asked as we crossed the quad.
I nodded. “Over in Cape Heron, with my sister, Sophia. She bought a bookstore.”
“The Book Nook? The one on Fifth?”
“Yeah, you know it?”
He lifted his chin in a nod. “I live in the Cape, too. I noticed it was re-opening soon.”
“In a few weeks. It’s been closed for over a year, so it’s needed a lot of work.”
“Let me know if she needs any help. I’m good with my hands.” He waved his hands in emphasis.
I tried not to think about what his hands may be good at. The thought made me giddy.
I was glad she’d already hired someone. Mr. Beautiful around Sophia? They might meet at some point, considering we had several team projects over the semester and he lived near the bookstore. I thought I would kill her, though, if she ever hooked up with him. Although he couldn’t possibly be interested in me, I didn’t think I could stand for him to date her . . . to be my mother’s boyfriend. Ugh!
“I’m taking a gamble here, but I’d say that’s your ride?”
Besides a motorcycle, my 15-year-old, white VW convertible was the only vehicle in the parking lot. The other classes must have let out early for the first night. He walked me to the car I’d bought when we moved down here, using the savings from my high-school job of tutoring elementary kids.
“Guess I’ll see you Wednesday?” he asked as I opened the car door and dropped my bag on the back seat.
I turned back toward him. “Yeah, I guess so.”
“Be careful.” His unexpected warning gave me pause, but then he added, “Driving home, I mean.”
“Oh, right. You, too.” I eyed the shiny motorcycle. I didn’t recognize the make, but it definitely wasn’t a Harley-Davidson, the only brand I really knew. This was a crotch-rocket, the kind seen screaming down the highway at a hundred miles an hour, the rider hunched over the handlebars, dangerously weaving around traffic. He had a risky side. Maybe that’s what the mind-nudge had meant.
“You don’t like bikes?”
“I like Harleys.” I hoped that didn’t offend him, if it was a Chevy-versus-Ford kind of thing.
He chuckled. “My other one is a Harley.”
I scoffed. “Your other one?”
“I like toys.” He shrugged with a grin. “See you Wednesday.”
I sat in my car and watched him walk away in my rearview mirror. What a fine sight to see. He had the perfect butt of a warrior god. As I admired, I couldn’t help but notice that about halfway across the parking lot, his whole body shifted and became more relaxed. I hadn’t even noticed he was tense until now—he’d seemed so cool and casual. I wondered what made him anxious. Surely someone like him couldn’t be nervous talking to someone like me. As he fired up the bike, he glanced over at my car, and I started my own engine so he wouldn’t think something was wrong. Don’t mind me. Just ogling.
Before I left, I put the top down. The balmy air hung with humidity, but I hoped the wind on the highway would equate to a cold shower.
* * *
Wednesday morning I rushed again, this time to my women’s studies class. It was the last place I wanted to be, so I took my time getting to campus, and now I was running late. Why did I take this stupid class anyway? Tuesday had been a productive day for writing. Going to this pointless elective now seemed like a waste of a valuable hour. It would be a long day on campus, too, with the team meeting in the afternoon. Of course, that meant seeing Tristan again, but after a delicious dream the other night and waking up to the disappointment that it could never come true, I’d convinced myself to stop thinking about him.
I walked into class right at 9:30, but the instructor hadn’t started her lecture yet. A low thrum of chatter among the students filled the room. Not all were female; there were three guys. No . . . four today. My mouth nearly dropped open. Tristan sat at the back of the room, talking to a couple of scantily clad girls. He stretched his arm across the desk next to him and shook his head, saving the seat for someone. I wondered who the lucky girl was as I headed to an open desk.
I retrieved my books from my bag when he caught my eye and grinned. He nodded at the desk next to him and winked. I stared at him, a dense fog filling my brain. When I shook my head to clear it, he pushed his bottom lip out and gave me sad eyes. A small giggle burst through my lips and before my brain registered that I moved, I was already back there. So much for not thinking about him.
“What are you doing here?” I demanded.
“I told you, it sounded interesting, so I picked up the class. Maybe I’ll learn something.” The smile he flashed caused my heart to flip. He was good at making my internal organs do gymnastics.
“I’m sure it’s not what you’re thinking,” I said, waving my syllabus as I took my seat.
He held up his own copy. “Do you really think I enrolled in a class without knowing what it was? Give me a little credit, please.”
My face flushed. “Sorry. It just doesn’t seem like the type of thing you’d be interested in. I feel like it’s a waste of time, and I’m a woman.”
“Hmm . . . maybe I can make it interesting for you.”
I lifted my eyebrows. What does that mean? He smiled and nodded at the front of the room as the instructor began. I tried to focus on the lecture, but my eyes kept pulling to my right. Sitting next to Tristan in class was like driving down a highway parallel to a breathtaking landscape—I knew I should keep my eyes straight forward, but they kept drifting to the side to enjoy the view.
Unable to control myself, I snuck a glance at him out of the corner of my eye. I was shocked to see his jaw muscle twitching and his nostrils flared, as though he were angry. I wondered what he could possibly be thinking about. Was this feminine stuff too much for his manly ego? No, that seemed too petty. The next time I peeked, he appeared perfectly fine, to the point that I thought maybe I’d imagined the anger before. He peered back at me, the gold flecks in his green irises sparkling again. He pushed his notebook to the side of his desk, toward me, with a note written in the margin.
How many cats do you think she has?
I bit my lip, suppressing a giggle. I’d wondered the same thing about the teacher on the first day of class. I wrote on my own notebook: 12?
He flipped over to a blank sheet, and his pen dashed across the page. I started to think he was just taking notes when he pushed the notebook toward me again. He’d drawn a cartoon picture of the teacher with twelve cats surrounding her. I had to cover my mouth with my hand to keep from laughing aloud. We exchanged written jokes about her and the cats and added hilarious details to the cartoon drawing throughout the remainder of class.
“What are you up to next?” he asked after class.
I wrinkled my nose. “I have calculus in ten minutes. Then I’ll probably torture myself some more and try to get homework done before our team meeting later.”
“Not a math geek, huh?”
“Not even close.” It was the only freshman core class I hadn’t tested out of.
“Well, you have fun with that. See you later. And thanks for making class interesting.”
I cocked an eyebrow. I should have been thanking him. I had practically fallen out of my seat with silent giggles.
“Seriously. It’s no fun writing notes to myself. I don’t play along nearly as well as you do.” He grinned. Then he did it again: he winked at me. My insides softened as I gawked at him. I’m such a fool.
“I’ll see you later,” I finally muttered when my head cleared. I made a beeline for the door before I made a bigger idiot of myself.
After calculus, I grabbed a soda and a bag of trail mix at the student union and headed for the seating area where our team would be meeting. I had just spread out my calculus text and notebook on the table when the familiar voice murmured close behind me, sending a tingle up my spine.
“I’ve been waiting for you for a very long time.”
It’s like he keeps finding me . . . but why would he want to? Not that it bothered me. It should have, but it didn’t. He made me feel . . . good. Despite the mind-nudge.
“If that’s the case, then I should turn you in for stalking,” I replied drily as Tristan dropped his bag on the table and took the seat next to me.
He tilted his head toward me as the corner of his mouth lifted in a smirk. “Let’s consider the facts. You run into me, then show up in my communications class, and then in my women’s studies class that I decided to pick up with no idea which one you’re taking, and now you’re right here where I need to be in thirty minutes. I could turn you in for stalking.”
Obviously, he was teasing because his analysis was full of holes, but heat crept from the base of my neck to the top of my scalp anyway.
“I wouldn’t, though, turn you in, I mean. You can stalk me anytime.” He grinned. I blushed harder. Mr. Beautiful is flirting with me.
“Yeah, well, I don’t have time right now. First, I need to get these problems done.”
“Ah, right, your own personal torture. Need some help? I am a math geek.”
I laughed. “Geek” was the last word anyone would use to describe Tristan.
That’s how it all started. With two classes together and team projects to work on, I saw him every other day during the week. He helped me with my calculus, I helped him perfect his essays, and we kept each other company between classes. Each time we were together, I felt another click in my heart, and that was probably not good.
I honestly couldn’t explain my behavior. I should have pulled away, if I knew what was good for me. Instead, I was drawn toward him. He brought something out in me I never knew was there. I couldn’t pinpoint what it was, but it felt good. Emotionally good. Well, physically good, too. But also emotionally. Really.
Even more than my own behavior, I certainly didn’t understand his—he could easily take his pick of girls. I didn’t complain, of course. For weeks, our conversations centered on homework, college, and the weather—pretty boring, yet safe topics. The more time we spent together, the better I felt around him. The mind-nudge had all but disappeared. Even when he’d flirt with me or get this certain look in his eyes or shift his body closer to mine, I didn’t mind. Well, my body didn’t. It would zing with anticipation of his touch. But my mind still protested, worried he’d be like . . . others. Then he’d pull back, as if there was a line I didn’t want drawn but was there nonetheless—one neither of us could bring ourselves to cross.
Yet.
Chapter 3
CHAPTER 3
I used to think Mondays were nothing but a rude awakening from the lovely dream of the weekend. Now I looked forward to them. Except for the fifty minutes of calculus, Tristan and I spent from nine-thirty in the morning to ten at night together, so I was always ridiculously giddy as I entered our women’s studies class. Of course, we had class and team meetings the majority of the time, but sometimes it was only the two of us hanging out.
One such Monday in late September, we sat outside on the quad’s lawn. The air was still warm, but we didn’t drown from the humidity. I kicked off my flip-flops and sat on the grass, absorbing the sunshine. I closed my eyes and tilted my face to the sun for a few minutes, but I felt Tristan watching me, making me self-conscious. I surrendered and reluctantly pulled my books out of my bag.
Tristan leaned against a tree with a notebook on his lap and pencil in hand, already working on something. I left my calculus for later, not wanting to bother him for the help he gave, always patient with my mental blocks when it came to numbers. So I pulled out the communications text instead. I had three chapters to read before I could even start on the paper he was probably finishing right now. He was always several steps ahead of me in our assignments, but, for some reason, still had me review his nearly perfect essays.
I stole a glance at him one more time before delving into the text. He caught my eye, smiled, and winked, bringing that fog into my brain. Why does he do that to me? Apparently pleased with my dazed reaction, he grinned wider and bent over his notebook. The way his pencil flew across the page, he obviously wasn’t working on that paper after all. He was drawing. But when I leaned over to look, he pulled the pad up so I couldn’t see and shook his head. I blew out an annoyed breath, and lifting my chin with petulance, I turned to my book. He chuckled under his breath.
“Hey, Tristan,” a vaguely familiar female voice called from behind me a little later.
He glanced over my head, and his body went rigid.
“Hey,” he muttered.
“We’re going to the Phi Kapps’ house for a pool party. Wanna come?” a different female asked as they came closer.
He shot them a strange look, almost like he was angry.
“On a Monday?” he asked, his voice full of skepticism. I could hear something else underneath—a steely hardness.
“It’s the Phi Kapps. Any day is good enough for them,” the first girl said. “So, you coming?”
The girls stood by his side now, towering over him as he remained seated. If he looked up, he’d have an eyeful of long legs in short shorts and big boobs in tight tops, but, for some unfathomable reason, he looked at me instead. I recognized the girls from our women’s studies class, and they were exactly who I’d picture Tristan with—at least in his league, which I was not. Apparently, they felt the same. They didn’t give me so much as a glance.
I waited with bated breath for Tristan to give his answer, already knowing what it would be. What warm-blooded male would pass up a pool party with college girls—especially these girls? His gaze continued to hold mine as though he tried to pry his answer from me.
“Do you want to go?” he finally asked, his question directed my way. I blinked in surprise. “She can come, right?”
That question was for the girls, although his eyes never left my face. Both of their mouths fell open. They obviously weren’t accustomed to rejection, which this essentially was. They glanced down at the notebook in his lap, shot their eyes at me, and then back at him.
“Of course,” the brunette said, her words dripping with false sweetness. “Girls are always welcome, and they love fresh blood over there.”
“There’s nothing more fun than breaking a virgin,” the strawberry-blonde said, and I thought I might die right there. Her eyes widened at my expression, the other girl snickered, and anger flashed across Tristan’s eyes. Blondie backtracked. “A party virgin, I mean. Have you been to a frat party yet, hun?”
My head shook on its own, my brain too focused on finding a rock to hide under to formulate an answer.
“Then you have to go!” Blondie gushed. “Really, Tristan. It’s more than a month into her freshman year, and you haven’t taken your sister to a college party?”
The girls both shook their heads as they walked off. I wanted to shrink into the ground.
Tristan ignored their asinine comments, still focused on me. “Well?”
I pressed my lips together, trying to keep my mouth from falling open. I couldn’t answer at first. I didn’t know what to say. No, I hadn’t experienced my first frat party yet, but I didn’t exactly feel like I was missing out. Plus, we had class tonight. On the other hand, what normal person didn’t go to a party when invited?
A small smile spread on Tristan’s face, and he began packing his books. “You do want to go, don’t you? I see the curiosity in your eyes. Come on. Let’s check it out. Nothing says we have to stay.”
“I don’t have a swimsuit with me.”
He shrugged. “So what?”
“It’s a pool party?”
“I don’t have one, either. Trust me—the emphasis is on party. Not everyone will be in the pool.” He moved as though to stand up, but paused, waiting for me.
I still hesitated, unsure about this. The last party I attended had ended in major disaster. The party scene was so not my comfort zone.
“You can go on without me,” I finally said.
He chuckled. “Now what fun would that be?”
“I’m sure lots,” I muttered.
“Nah.” He leaned back against the tree, as though giving up, but he still held his bag’s strap in his hand, in case I changed my mind. “But if you don’t want to go . . .”
I sighed internally. I wasn’t sure if I did or not, but he seemed to. And . . . this was college. Everything was different. People were less judgmental, at least compared to high school. As long as I didn’t do anything stupid, I’d be okay. I gnawed on my lip.
Tristan stood up and held his hand out to me. “That’s it. Come on, let’s go. Stay close to me, and you’ll be fine.”
I hesitated for only one second longer before hurriedly stuffing my books into my bag. College was like being in Rome . . . you did what everyone else did. You went to parties. You stepped out of your comfort zone. You lost your virginity—all the various kinds. Especially when you were trying to hide your freak flag and be normal. This was a pretty easy virginity to lose, and like he said, we could always leave.
I didn’t know what his outstretched hand meant, so I pretended not to see it as I rose to my feet, and then we caught up to the girls who had stopped to deliver more invitations. They pretty much ignored us as we followed them down the street to Greek Row and the fraternity house. Just before we entered the front door, though, the girls each looped an arm around Tristan’s and started to pull him inside.
“We’ll show you where the keg is,” the brunette said.
“And anything else you want to see,” the blonde added, and she rubbed her boobs against his bicep. Seriously! I didn’t know girls like this actually existed in real life. I tried to ignore the pang of jealousy that shot through my chest.
“I’m sure we can find it,” Tristan said as he twisted his body to extricate himself from their grips. When their cute little pouts didn’t work on him, they both turned and trotted off, toward the back of the house. Tristan looked at me. “You want a beer?”
Not really.
“Of course she does.” A guy with dark brown dreadlocks and sunglasses stepped into the entryway, wearing swim trunks and a T-shirt that said “Like it or not, God made pot” with a picture of a marijuana leaf on it. He lifted his hand and did some elaborate handshake kind of thing with Tristan. “Dude, you came. Wasn’t sure if you would. The more the merrier, yo, so come on back.”
“Stay close,” Tristan murmured to me.
I nodded and followed them through the dingy house, careful not to touch anything, knowing it’d be sticky with who-knew-what, and out to the large courtyard surrounded by the sprawling house. The blare of rap music assaulted my ears, and the sharp odor of chlorine mixed with a tart, smoky fragrance greeted my nose, making it twitch. There was an inground pool, several mismatched lounge chairs scattered about, and a keg, but otherwise, the party was completely underwhelming.
The two girls dropped their clothes immediately and jumped into the pool, joining two other bikini-clad females. Three guys sat in the lounge chairs, drinking beers and passing around a cigarette. Oh, wait. A joint. Or was it a blunt? I didn’t know the difference, but that would explain the strange fragrance. I twisted a lock of hair around my finger as I took it all in. I am so out of my element.
“Beer?” Tristan asked, holding out a red plastic cup full of light golden liquid that could have been pee, for all I knew. He watched me closely as I dropped my hair and reached for the cup. I really didn’t want it. My strong sense of smell pretty much ruined the taste of beer for me. Besides, I had to remain vigilant to ensure this party, and this guy, didn’t go the way the last one had. But I had to try to fit in, as well, and not draw unnecessary attention. So I took the cup and lifted it to my lips, pretending to sip.
“Keep it covered at all times,” Tristan warned as we found a raggedy umbrella to stand under for at least a little reprieve from the sun. It didn’t take long for me to yearn for the shade of the oak trees on the quad or, better yet, air conditioning in the library.
After a while, Dreadlocks sauntered over to us after talking to the other guys toking away.
“So, you thought about rushing?” he asked as he stopped to stand in front of us. His lids hung heavily over bloodshot, brown eyes, and a thick haze of smoke wafted off of him, the smell quite pungent. The corners of his lips seemed to be permanently curled upward. “Too late for this semester, but there’s always next. A dude who brings in girls like this belongs with us.” Tristan looked down at me with half a smile, but Dreads barely glanced at me before nodding at the girls in the pool. “No, them. Babes like those. Smokin’ sexy and stupid.”
Something like a growl sounded in Tristan’s throat, and he shifted closer to me. I acted like I hadn’t noticed as I wrapped my arm over my fully clothed torso. I got it, and I didn’t really care. I’d rather be happy with myself in my T-shirt, jean shorts, and flip-flops than be thought of as a bimbo in a bikini because it gave a jerk like this a hard-on. If those girls enjoyed their lives, great for them, but that was not the kind of “normal” I wanted to be.
“I don’t know,” Tristan hedged in answer to Dreads’ question. He didn’t seem like the frat-boy type to me. He had too much of an edge to him. But even I, inexperienced in these things, knew frats welcomed pretty much any girl, but not so much random guys, unless they were interested in being a part of the house.
“Dude, don’t tell me you’re a GDI?” He looked at Tristan more closely and nodded his head, then frowned and shook it, his dreads bouncing all over the place. “Yeah, you got that God Damn Independent look. Figures. Well, if you can bring these kinds of chicks, I’ll keep you on the special guest list anyway.”
With that, the guy walked away and straight into the pool. The girls swarmed him. Tristan and I exchanged a look and then feigned to drink our beers. I noticed his wasn’t going down very fast either.
“Everything you thought it would be?” he asked.
I laughed. “Not exactly. But it’s okay. I think I got stoned just standing by that guy. My first high. Another virginity broken.”
The words popped out on their own, and I clapped my hand over my mouth. I couldn’t believe I just blurted that! Maybe the pot really was getting to me.
His turn to laugh. “I’m sorry. This isn’t your thing, is it?”
I shook my head. “Not at all. Pretty obvious, isn’t it?”
“You want to get out of here?”
I nodded almost too quickly. The thought of bailing had already passed through my mind several times. I’d given the frat party the good old college try and could check it off my bucket list. I’d been right—I hadn’t been missing out on anything. My “normal” belonged more toward the nerd girl end of the spectrum, and I was good with that. It was hard enough to pretend I wasn’t a freak; pushing my limits any further than that was too much to ask. I could have been perfectly happy as Normal Book Nerd. I just didn’t know if Tristan would be, and if not, how much I cared.
Too much, I already knew.
He took my still full and now warm cup and tossed both of ours into a large trash can that reeked of stale beer.
“Hey, dude, you goin’ to get more friends?” Dreads asked as Tristan and I made our way around the pool, headed for the house. The way he said ‘friends’, I knew he meant of the female variety specifically. More people had shown up in the hour or so we’d been here, although the crowd still hadn’t reached what I’d expected for a proper frat party, and most of them were guys. “It’ll pick up in a while, when everyone’s done with classes and bein’ all responsible and shit.”
“We might be back,” Tristan called over his shoulder, then he murmured, “Or not,” before opening the door and holding his arm out for me to pass through first. But then he swore under his breath as he jerked the door closed, and he turned to me while stuffing his hand into his pocket. “Can you wait here for a minute?”
My brows gathered together, but I nodded.
“Just one minute. Please stay right here.”
“Um . . . okay.”
“Don’t go anywhere.”
Before I could ask why, he hurried inside, and I spied the silhouette of a female by the front door before he pulled the back one closed. Ah. So there was somebody else for him . . . I swallowed down the lump that had sprung into my throat. I had no right to be jealous or disappointed. We were study buddies and nothing more. Now why he didn’t want me to see her, I didn’t know, but I didn’t care. I’d show him that I thought of this as nothing more than a friendship, too.
As I made my way through the house to the front, though, I found no sign of either of them. I glanced through the doorways of the rooms off the hallway, but nobody occupied any of them. He’d either left me or didn’t want to be found, so I grabbed the front door’s knob to head back to the quad. When I pulled it open, Tristan’s voice floated from around the corner of the house, and my feet automatically followed it, although my sixth sense yelled at me to stay away.
Bad, bad, bad! It hissed in the back of my mind, but I couldn’t help myself, especially as Tristan’s voice dropped to a deep, low threat that sent a chill over my skin.
“Stay the hell away, or I’ll stake you in the heart myself, dismember you, and scatter your pieces around the world so you can never put them back together again.”
The intention I felt was so dark, my sense would start yelling Evil! and Run! any moment, and my heart already sprinted. But the feeling dissipated the moment I rounded the corner. Tristan stood there by himself, and all feeling of danger vanished. He stared at me as my eyes roamed the area, searching for whomever he’d been threatening so violently. Either they were really fast, or nonexistent, because there was nobody else around.
“Um . . . vampire problems?” I managed to ask as my heart settled down to a normal pace.
Tristan’s eyes tightened for a moment, and his head cocked to the side at my lame attempt of a joke. Oh, great. My obsession with the geeky stuff just showed. I let out what was meant to be a laugh to blow it off, although it sounded all wrong. He straightened and displayed a cell phone in his hand.
“Business,” he said. “Sorry. I had to take the call.”
I stared at him for what was probably a moment too long as I tried to figure out the various emotions rushing through me. Confusion, mostly. What happened to the girl inside? Had she had anything to do with him? Who had he been warning, and why so brutally?
He scrubbed his hand through his hair when I didn’t say anything. “It was a metaphor. What I said on the phone. A rival’s overstepping their boundaries, basically trying to steal what I’ve been working hard for, so I had to put them in their place.”
“Oh.” I forced out a laugh. “Right. Of course. What kind of business are you in?”
“A cutthroat one,” he deadpanned. “Are you ready to go?”
Realizing he wasn’t going to explain any further, I nodded. “I was just headed back. But don’t feel like you need to leave on my account. I’ll see you in class. Or . . . around.” I started across the lawn for the road, and he followed. “Seriously. Go back if you want. I’m pretty sure I can find my way.”
He let out what was sort of a snort, if snorts could be the least bit sexy. “Not interested. In going back, I mean. I am interested in hanging out with you, though.”
Now my turn to reply with a snort. “You’d rather hang out with me than those boobalicious babes?”
“Definitely.” He answered so quickly, so firmly, it surprised me, and I didn’t know what to say. Silence fell as we walked a dozen paces. “Is that okay?” he finally asked. “Do you still want me around?”
Heh. As if I could ever not. I enjoyed our time together probably a little too much, and it made me kind of sad and lonely to think about him going back. But he didn’t need to know that. How did I get here, where being alone was a bad thing?
“Does it matter what I want?” I muttered, the edge in my voice reflecting my annoyance at myself.
“It matters very much to me.”
My heart skipped, and I stared at the ground as we walked, my face hot. Again.
“Yes, I want you here,” I admitted. “I just don’t know why you would want to. Most people don’t hang around this long.”
“I’m not most people.”
He definitely was not like most people, but I knew he wasn’t thinking along the same lines I was. I didn’t know how to respond, so we fell into a long silence as we headed for an on-campus market to grab something to eat before class. I hoped he would forget the conversation.
As we neared the store, though, he cleared his throat. “Can I ask you a question?”
I shrugged and looked up at him. “You can always ask.”
He lifted an eyebrow. “Ah. So, then . . . will you answer a question for me?”
“Depends . . .”
“I guess I’ll try my luck.” He peered down at me as he opened the door to the shop and stepped back for me to enter. Holding doors open seemed to be second nature to him, just like walking me to my car every day and other behavior modern males didn’t normally do. No, he wasn’t like other guys. “What did you mean earlier when you said most people don’t hang around this long?”
Crap. I should have known he wouldn’t forget it. Why had I even said it? I quickly ordered a chef’s salad at the deli counter and used the time as he ordered his own food to come up with a non-answer.
“So . . . you’re not going to answer?” Tristan asked after we sat at a table in the small dining area of the market.
I shrugged. “I just meant most guys would have stayed at the pool party with hot girls and cold beer than . . . not.”
He leaned toward me, looking into my eyes. The gold sparkles in his were bright and enrapturing. My breath caught. “That’s not what you meant.”
I forced myself to breathe, my head swimming from the intensity of his gaze.
“It’s pretty close,” I finally said. He continued staring at me expectantly. I sighed. Then I tried to switch directions with my own question. “Do you know Dreads well?”
“Dreads?” he asked with a chuckle at the nickname. “Nah. His girlfriend’s in your calculus class, so we were talking this morning while waiting for you.”
He waited for me to get out of class? I hadn’t realized.
“I’m sorry,” he added. “I didn’t know he was such an ass.”
“Wait. He has a girlfriend?”
“Yeah. Kind of scary, isn’t it?”
I nodded. “I feel bad for her.” I peered back at him. Did I dare ask? The question came out before I could fully contemplate it. “And you?”
He leaned in again and said very firmly, “No.”
“Those girls?”
“I only know them from class. Girls like that, though . . . they seem to think I want to know them.”
“And you don’t?”
“No. They think I’m like them, that they’re my type, but unlike them, I’m more than a pretty face.” His mouth curled in a cocky grin, and his eyes sparkled brightly as they roved over my face. “And I prefer my girls the same . . . with a little more substance.”
The insinuation sent my heart one way and my mind another, leaving me more confused than ever. “Then why did you want to go to the party in the first place?”
“Because you looked like you did. And I wasn’t about to let you go alone.” The corners of his lips twitched as if fighting another smile, but his eyes narrowed accusingly. “I see what you’re doing. Time to answer my question. What did you really mean?”
I pursed my lips together as his eyes held mine, challenging me. I finally pulled my gaze from his and stared at my uninspiring salad. “I told you. That party was an example. Most people wouldn’t hang out week after week doing homework and discussing trivial things.”
I didn’t add “with me,” although that was the original meaning. It would point out something was wrong with me. I expected him to lose interest before he ever discovered the freaky things.
“I haven’t found any of our conversations trivial,” he replied. I looked back up at him and tilted my head, an eyebrow cocked. “You have?”
“It’s not exactly exciting stuff.”
His eyes flickered. “So . . . you’re bored? You would rather go to parties?”
“No!” I sighed with mounting frustration. “That’s not what I meant.”
“Are you going to tell me what you mean, then? Or are we just going to continue in circles?”
He sat back in his chair and brought a peach to his mouth. The way his lips closed around it as he bit through the flesh made my stomach tighten and a fire burst way down low. How could eating a peach be such a freaking turn-on? A drop of juice glistened on his lip, and the image of licking it clean for him flashed in my mind. I blinked it away. He still sat there, waiting for my answer.
I sighed again; it was nearly a groan. How could he do this to me? He was too irresistible for my own good.
“Fine.” I took a deep breath and spewed out the words. “I really don’t get why you choose to hang out with me, doing nothing special, when there are so many other things you could be doing with so many other people. Most people would be long gone by now.”
“I told you, I’m not like most people.” He leaned forward, over the table, his eyes intense again. My insides quivered and warmed under his relentless gaze. “I’d rather hang out, doing nothing special with you because you are . . . special.”
My eyes widened. He moved his hand toward mine, as if to take it. I had to will my own hand to remain still before it jumped out to his and beat him to the first move. My skin tingled with anticipation, and my heart beat erratically. Before he even touched me, though, a quiet groan rumbled in his throat, and his hand was suddenly in his lap. His eyes broke from mine, and he looked away for the first time since we sat down. I exhaled slowly and quietly, allowing a moment of silence to pass as I recovered.
“You obviously don’t know me very well,” I finally muttered.
He sat back again, and his gaze returned to me, looking as calm as always, as if nothing had just happened. “Hmm . . . You’re right. I’m still trying to figure you out. But I do know you and I are very much alike.”
I barked out a laugh. “In what alternate reality? We seem to be complete opposites.”
He was perfect. I was ordinary . . . except for the weird things. He was a math whiz, and I was an English major. He was athletic; I was far from it. He was beautiful. I was . . . me.
He nodded, a thoughtful look on his face. “Yes, in many ways we are opposites, you’re right. But, we’re much more alike than you realize. You’re not like most people either.”
So he did notice. Yet, here he was.
“And that’s why I didn’t want to stay or go back. College parties are no good for me. Trust me. You, on the other hand, are very good for me.” He lifted his eyebrows, as if asking if I understood. I just stared at him for a long moment.
“I don’t get it,” I finally whispered.
He shrugged. “You don’t have to. It’s just the way it is.”
That was about as deep as it ever went for the next few weeks. We never came back to that strange conversation, when I had let my guard down more than I had with anyone in years. We both seemed to notice there was some kind of connection between us and neither of us could break it. Perhaps he was right. Maybe we were more alike than I realized. I felt another click in my heart as another piece fell into place.
Chapter 4
CHAPTER 4
October brought midterms and, of course, Halloween. Mom buzzed excitedly about her first real store event since the Grand Opening—a Halloween party for the kids. I had put off serious studying for exams because I was spending so much time writing. I preferred spending time with my characters than with the overzealous feminists or derivatives and functions. With midterms looming, though, I had to switch gears.
First, I promised to help Mom decorate the store for Halloween before it opened one morning. Mom had hired her first employee, Owen, before the Grand Opening, insisting that I spend my time writing, not working. But I wanted to do something for her since she did so much for me.
“Good morning, little dudette,” Owen greeted when I entered the bookstore bright and early that Thursday morning.
He looked like he should still be in college, but wasn’t. I didn’t ask, but I guessed he’d dropped out to enjoy the Florida lifestyle of sun and fun, although I thought he was on the wrong coast. He seemed to belong in California, hanging out with the surfers.
I grunted. I’d stayed up until one in the morning reading about women playwrights and their portrayal of female characters.
“Hmm . . . not a good morning?” Owen asked.
“It’s eight a.m., I don’t have classes, and I’m not in bed. What could be good about it?”
He nodded and laughed. “Yeah, know what ya mean.”
I watched as he cleaned the counter with an energy that contradicted his words.
“You look like a morning person to me.”
He threw me a disgusted look, though his sapphire-blue eyes gleamed with humor. “I take that as an insult.”
“So you’re not always like this?”
He scrubbed his hand through his blond hair as he seemed to think about it. “I have no idea. Don’t see this time of day whenever I can help it.”
He winked at me. It was cute, but it didn’t have that mind-fogging effect Tristan’s wink did. He wasn’t ugly or even unattractive, but . . . well, not Mr. Beautiful. In fact, in the looks department, Owen compared to Tristan like I compared to Mom—pleasant, but not striking. She thought Owen looked like James Dean, one of her favorite actors from the old movies she loved so much.
“You look exhausted, Alexis,” Mom said as she stepped out from a row of bookcases. “Maybe you’re trying to do too much. Owen and I can take care of this.”
“I’m fine. I just need some caffeine. I think I’ll go get some coffee across the street before we do this.”
“Why don’t you two go get some for all of us?” she said. “Take a five out of the drawer.”
Mom didn’t excite easily, but the way she gushed about Owen—how great he was, such a good worker, funny, yada, yada—you’d think he’d stepped right out of the pages of a book about Mr. Right. When I asked her why she didn’t go out with him, she said she needed a man-break. Besides, she’d said, he was closer to my age than her real one. Yep, she was trying to set us up. Hence, sending us both to do a one-person job.
“That’s okay, Owen,” I said. “I think I can manage.”
I tried to hurry across Fifth, the main business street of Cape Heron, but my body wouldn’t cooperate, longing for my warm, comfy bed. I’d been surprised to find a bigger difference in seasons down here than I’d expected, although they were subtle changes—the mornings were cooler, the highs hit the low eighties instead of the nineties, and it didn’t rain every afternoon like it did throughout the summer. As I headed to the coffee shop, I enjoyed the salty breeze off the nearby Gulf of Mexico, letting it awaken my senses.
The Cape was a sleepy little resort town—at least it had been when we moved here in the middle of summer—among many dotting the Gulf Coast between Tampa and Naples. The region had been growing busier recently as the first snowbirds left their summer homes in the north and came south for the winter, so I wasn’t surprised to find the coffee shop busy with retirees.
The place was less of a modern coffee shop and more like an old-style diner with wood and vinyl booths and a row of peg-like stools pinned in front of the counter. The smells of smoky bacon, sweet pancakes, and pungent coffee mixed in the air, reminiscent of the many diners we stopped at during our moves. The residue of last night’s old-lady night cream and Ben-Gay wafted from the elderly couple in front of me, making my nose twitch.
While I waited in line, I glanced around for someone interesting, a habit I learned from creative writing classes. People-watching was great for character development. I became lost in thought while observing an older man with gray caterpillar eyebrows and a matching mustache sip his coffee and read a newspaper at the counter. His mustache crawled as he silently moved his lips while reading. He’d make a great werewolf, perhaps a pack leader.
“Hello, sexy Lexi.”
The lovely voice against my ear made me jump, and I spun around. Tristan stood just behind me.
“Sorry, you don’t like Lexi, do you?” he asked with a smirk.
Actually, I love the way it sounds from you. Did he really call me sexy?
“It wasn’t the Lexi part,” I said pointedly.
His eyes sparkled brightly. “So, I can call you Lexi?”
“Not in public.” I never went by Lexi specifically because of that nickname.
“But in private is okay,” he said. It wasn’t a question. And he followed it with his devastating smile, making certain parts of my body tighten. My turn was up, and the cashier had to ask me three times for my order before I even realized she was talking to me.
“Make that four coffees.” Tristan pulled his wallet out of his back pocket. “I got it.”
“Business expense.” I held up Mom’s money folded between my index and middle finger.
“Save it. You can have the receipt, and she still gets the expense.” He paid while saying this, so I reluctantly stuffed the bill and the receipt in my jeans pocket with a scowl. I didn’t like owing him.
I grabbed little cups of cream and packets of sweetener as I waited for the order. When the four cups were placed on the counter, I tried to figure out how I would carry three of them.
“Let me help,” Tristan offered.
He grabbed one of the Styrofoam cups just as I did, and an electric pulse flew through my hand and up my arm as our fingers touched. I flinched and looked up at him. He smiled, and a gleam sparked in his eyes. He felt it, too, it seemed, but hadn’t pulled back. It was, admittedly, a pleasurable sensation. It was the first time we’d touched—except when I collided with him that first night. When there had also been a shock. Weird . . .  I took the other two cups and walked out without a word.
My stomach tightened as we crossed the street—Mr. Beautiful and my goddess-like mother were about to meet. The cowbell on the front door jangled when we walked in, and Mom came from the back room, her arms loaded with glossy hardcover books. She looked up, and her eyes went straight behind me to Tristan. She stopped dead, and the books crashed to the floor. Her mouth fell open, as did mine. Mom never dropped things—she had excellent reflexes. She stood there stiffly, still staring at him. Please, please don’t let them . . .
“Um, Sophia?” I said, puzzled by her reaction.
She continued glaring at Tristan, and I began making introductions, but my voice trailed off in the middle of them. Mom paid absolutely no attention to me, and I suddenly felt like the outsider. Her eyes narrowed tightly at Tristan as she lifted her chin. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Tristan just barely nod. Mom, almost imperceptibly, tilted her head in response. And then, to my complete embarrassment, she turned on her heel and marched to the back room. She barked something to Owen, and he rushed out, froze for a moment when he saw Tristan, then nodded and hurriedly picked up the books.
“Sorry about that,” I said.
“Sure, no problem.” Tristan rubbed his hand over the back of his neck as he watched the doorway to the back room, as if expecting her to return . . . or wanting to follow her.
I moaned internally.
“Thanks for the coffee.” I made my voice light so it wouldn’t betray my feelings of defeat and disappointment.
He pulled his eyes away from the back room and turned to me.
“My pleasure. I’ll see you later.” He leaned closer and whispered, “Bye, sexy Lexi.”
Stunned, I looked up at him. He flashed a smile, then strode out of the store, leaving me in a daze. Could he possibly . . . ? Not him and Mom? Maybe . . . just maybe? My heart sped with hope.
But then I remembered Mom.
I trudged to the back room where my normally calm and cool mother paced around a stack of boxes.
“What was that all about?” I demanded.
“What?” She stopped pacing and widened her eyes with false innocence.
“Your warm welcome to Tristan?”
“Oh, that. Sorry. I just thought . . . oh, never mind. It’s not important.” She smiled weakly. I didn’t buy it.
“Mom,” I whispered through clenched teeth, hoping Owen didn’t overhear us. “You were really kind of rude. That was so embarrassing. I think I really like this guy.”
Her eyes grew wide with surprise. “You really like him?”
I nodded, and a sheepish smile played at my mouth. It was the first time I’d admitted it aloud. I was still trying to be annoyed, though, so I fought the smile.
“How do you even know him?” She sounded angry, startling me into forgetting I was upset with her.
“He’s in a couple of my classes and on my communications team.”
Mom’s face looked furious as she glared at me. “I can’t believe you haven’t told me about him!”
I moaned with guilt, avoiding her glare by looking at the floor as I pulled at my hair. I tried to avoid the full truth. “Well, it’s not like there’s anything to it.”
“That could change. So what’s the rest?” She knew me too well.
I continued to stare at the floor, yanking and twisting my hair. “Well, I was afraid that . . . you and Tristan . . . well, you know how you are . . .”
My insides squirmed uncomfortably. Mom surprised me with a loud, “Ha!” My head snapped up to see her smug expression.
“That, my dear, is one thing you don’t need to worry about,” she said harshly. “I have absolutely no interest in him, and I strongly wish you wouldn’t, either.”
“What?”
“He’s trouble, Alexis. Trust me.”
“Mom!” I nearly shouted, forgetting about Owen. I quickly lowered my voice. “That’s not fair! You don’t even know him.”
She was silent for a moment. She had to know I made a good point. Then she said through clenched teeth, “I don’t need to. I can tell he’s not good for you.”
“Well, I think he is, and I’m an adult. So stop being the intruding mother you promised not to be and let me make my own decisions.”
Her eyes widened with shock. Her mouth pressed into an angry line. Then she stormed away, back to the front of the store.
I stood there, livid, trying to figure out what she wouldn’t like about Tristan. He hadn’t been here ten seconds or even said a word. How could she be so judgmental? That wasn’t like her at all.
I eventually dragged myself out to the front of the store and drank my coffee in silence. The heavy tension nearly suffocated me as we hung orange and black streamers, cutouts of bats and black cats, and fake spider webs around the store with as little conversation as necessary. I bailed out as soon as I possibly could and went home to study. But I couldn’t concentrate so I escaped to my writing.
“So, you really like him?” Mom had suddenly appeared in my doorway, startling me back to the real world. Wondering why she was home so soon, though, I glanced at the clock by my bed. It was already eight o’clock. Ugh. I had lost another day of studying. I stood up from my desk, stretched, and then plopped down on my bed.
“Yeah, I do. Who wouldn’t? He’s absolutely gorgeous!”
“Yes, well, looks aren’t everything.” Her tone was curt, almost cold.
“Of course, they aren’t! You know me better than that.”
She sighed. “So, what else?”
“He’s kind, he makes me laugh, and he’s a real gentleman. And I think he likes me.”
“You don’t need to like someone just because they like you, Alexis. What about Owen? He’s funny and kind.”
“Will you stop it? You’re being that mother again.” I glared at her.
She crossed her arms, and her voice hardened. “Good, because someone needs to look out for your best interests.”
“And you think Owen is in my best interest?” It came out as almost a sneer.
“Owen or just about anyone other than this Tristan.”
I sprang to my feet. “So, you want me to date, but I can only like the guy as long as it’s someone you pick.”
“I just don’t want you to get hurt!”
“And how do you know Owen or whoever you choose wouldn’t hurt me?”
“And how do you know Tristan isn’t just like James?”
Ouch. That hurt, and she knew it. She probably figured likening Tristan to James would be all it took to change my mind. It only made me angrier.
I nearly yelled, “And I guess it’s impossible for Owen to be anything like James, since you know him so damn well.”
She narrowed her eyes and kept her voice low but hard. “Owen is nothing like James. You can trust me on that one.”
“But you can’t trust me with Tristan?” I demanded.
“No! I can’t!”
I flinched at the shout. She dropped her head, pinching the bridge of her nose. After a long moment, she finally looked at me, concern filling her eyes.
“It’s not you whom I don’t trust,” she said, her voice now soft. She took a few steps closer to me. “How well do you even know Tristan?”
“Better than you do,” I spat. I groaned in frustration, though, because she had a point—after all this time, I really didn’t know Tristan at all.
“I’m just worried about you.” The concern in her voice wiped my anger away.
I sighed. “Do you want me to date or not?”
“I think it’d be good for you to date. You need to come out of your shell. But I want you to date someone nice. Tristan . . .” She hesitated.
“What?”
She didn’t answer, but her meaning was obvious.
“I just don’t want you to get hurt,” she said again. “No matter what we pretend, you’re still my baby.”
She wrapped her arms around my shoulders. I laid my head against her for a minute and then looked at her face, into her warm, brown eyes.
“I’m willing to take the chance with Tristan,” I admitted, and she frowned. “Mom, you know me. I don’t make friends easily because I don’t trust people—for very good reasons. James, for one. But I’m trusting my sense with Tristan, and I feel that he’s different. I want to spend time with him . . . as long as he wants to spend time with me. I want to get to know him better.”
“He’ll want to get to know you, too. It’s not a one-way street.”
“I will control who knows what about me . . . and you. It’s not like we’re going to get married or anything.” I chuckled at the thought of it ever getting that far.
She didn’t find it funny. She stared at me for a long moment, pressing her lips into a hard line. Then she abruptly spun around and marched out of my room and into the kitchen.
“Even if he’s not like James, he will hurt you,” she said over her shoulder. Just before she ducked into the hallway toward her room, she added, “Just remember who you are, Alexis.”
What the hell was that supposed to mean?
“Why don’t you tell me who I am?” I yelled at the same time she slammed her bedroom door.
Chapter 5
CHAPTER 5
I stared through the kitchen and down the empty hallway, I guess expecting her to come back and explain. Or for the answer to magically appear. Of course, neither happened.
I spun around and kicked my bag in frustration. A notebook slid out and several loose papers scattered across the floor, including my notes when I’d been trying to research us, with theories of telepathic witches, vampires, angels, and demons. As if they had anything to do with us. I picked the papers up and glared at them for a long moment, blaming them for everything—not the notes specifically, but the mystery of who I was. It seemed to be at the heart of everything wrong with my life.
I finally balled up the papers and stuffed them in my desk drawer. I didn’t need them anymore. The ideas were absurd and a waste of time. The research was only useful for my writing.
When I finally went to bed, I couldn’t sleep. Mom and I didn’t argue frequently, and I hated it when we did. She was my best friend, the only person in the world I could trust. I stopped trying to make friends in middle school, when everyone turned on everyone else so easily. I was an easy target—the perennial new kid who wasn’t quite normal. Even if they didn’t know my quirks yet, they knew there was something different and were quick to poke fun and spread rumors. But Mom was always there for me, with a comforting hug and a shoulder to cry on when the kids were especially hurtful. I could talk to her about anything. Well, almost anything. Our history was the only taboo subject. Until now.
And I really wanted, no, needed, to talk to her about Tristan. It didn’t look likely that would happen any time soon, though. Especially after she’d brought up James—and compared Tristan to him! Not that I hadn’t thought about it before.
James . . . my body shook under my blanket. Not with chills, but with renewed anger.
He was the last person I’d shared anything with besides Mom. I should have known better, but I was fifteen and naïve. I’d experienced enough kids taunting me, but James was different. Or so I’d thought. He didn’t give any particular bad vibes, but I became more attuned to my sixth sense later . . . after him . . . because of him.
He seemed genuinely interested and unusually friendly and somehow finagled out of me nearly all of my secrets. Although all the girls talked about him, I wasn’t ready for anything more than friendship. But that’s not what he had in mind. On the last day of school, I went to a party with him and learned that he mistook me for an insecure girl who’d give up her goods to the first guy who paid her any attention. His mood—his whole demeanor—changed as if, by pushing his hand away when he made his move, I had hit some kind of switch.
“You’re really rejecting me, Alexis?” he seethed. “After I accepted you, you’re rejecting me?”
I felt like I’d been slapped. I had misunderstood every kind gesture from the very first smile. Heat rushed to my face with a mix of embarrassment and anger. I stormed through the house, looking for an escape.
“You thought I’d sleep with you?” he shouted as he followed me out of the house, dozens of people following him to witness my shame. “Did you think I’d feel sorry for you because you’re such a damn freak?”
I’d heard that one before. I could even get over whatever damage his twisted words had done to my insignificant reputation. But he continued, and I spun around in disbelief as he aired everything I’d confided. My body trembled. My hands balled into fists. I could barely breathe. He ranted, sauntering closer to me as he did.
“Your own dad didn’t want you. Ditched you before you were even born. Probably knew you’d be a freak. And your mom . . . well, she’s hot, but she must have been thirteen when she had you. And with all those boyfriends . . . she’s a fucking whore!”
The next thing I knew, my right arm pulled back and, like a slingshot, flew forward. My fist jammed into James’s nose with a crunch.
We moved the next day. Not because we ran away from my humiliation or a potential lawsuit or battery charge, but because when I hit James, he sort of flew about fifteen feet backwards, bowling over a group of witnesses—I had more power in my punch than was normal for a fifteen-year-old girl. Actually, more power than a grown man. I wasn’t usually so strong, not like Mom. But I had never been so raging mad either.
That last betrayed trust set the final layer of blocks in the emotional wall I built around myself. There had been others like James, but I’d learned my lesson and shut them down without ever giving them a chance. I just couldn’t take the risk of that humiliation again. But now here I was, with another interested guy. There was a difference, though: the feeling was mutual. I just didn’t know how smart that was.
I eventually fell asleep and awoke in a bad mood. I peeked at the clock: 8:04. Crap! Class started in less than an hour.
Thank God it was Friday. I had the whole weekend to study for midterms, get them over with on Monday, and then, since I had no Tuesday classes, I had the rest of the week off for fall break.
I rushed around the house, relieved Mom had already left for work. I had nothing to say to her and no time to say it. I rushed to school and to women’s studies. I finally relaxed when I saw Tristan and his warm smile waiting for me. All of my worries and hurriedness washed away into peace as soon as I sat down next to him. With the mind-nudge gone, he now had some kind of calming effect on me. So I was surprised at what Carlie had to say that afternoon. We ran into each other in the bathroom, right before our team was meeting to prepare for Monday’s midterm.
“Tell me if it’s none of my business, but are you and Tristan going out or something?” she asked while I washed my hands and she primped.
“Um . . . no.” I watched her reflection in the mirror, trying to understand where she was going with it. Does she like him?
“Okay, good.” Her deep-blue eyes showed relief.
So that was a yes. A tinge of jealousy pricked my heart. But then she shocked me.
“Because he’s kind of creepy, don’t you think?”
“What?” I suppressed a surprised chuckle. Tristan creepy?
“I don’t know what it is. I mean, yeah, he’s really hot. Drop-dead gorgeous, actually. But he’s just . . . I don’t know . . . different, somehow.”
I wanted to laugh. I was so concerned about how abnormal I was, and she thought he was different.
“Something just bothers me about him,” she continued.
“He’s always been really nice,” I said in a lame attempt to defend him.
“So you do like him?” She peered at me, and then made a face. I didn’t know what to make of it.
“Just as a friend,” I lied.
“Oh, okay. Personally, I would stay away. He just seems a little . . . dangerous. And you seem so nice.” She smiled at my reflection, then fluffed her short, blond curls with her hands.
“Thanks for the, uh . . . heads up.” I didn’t know what else to say, so I left for the group.
I had a hard time focusing on our work because now both Mom’s and Carlie’s warnings echoed in my mind. Instead of studying our text, I studied Tristan, trying to look at him with a fresh perspective. But I saw and felt nothing . . . except his beauty, his laughter, the lovely sound of his voice, the kind tone it held when he spoke to any of us, the intelligent remarks he made when we actually discussed the exam, the sparkle in his eyes when he smiled . . . He caught me looking at him and winked. And, yeah, there’s that—the way my brain went pleasantly woozy when he winked.
I barely remembered leaving the study group and driving home, my mind still pondering. Carlie thought there was something dangerous about Tristan, and she hardly knew him. Mom took one look at him and didn’t like him. Am I missing something?
Knowing I couldn’t concentrate on studying or writing when I arrived home, I went for a walk. I meandered along the streets without paying attention to where I went, wondering why I couldn’t sense what they seemed to notice. Are my alarms broken? Or are Mom and Carlie just wrong about him? And if they’re right, why do I feel pulled to him, like a magnet to its opposite?
A familiar voice brought me out of my internal wanderings. I looked up and, with mild shock, found myself at the city park, bordering the north end of the Cape’s beach. It was a small park, with a playground to my left and the beach a few yards beyond it, a parking lot that could hold about twenty cars to my right, and basketball and tennis courts straight ahead. An old banyan tree, oaks dripping with Spanish moss, pines, and palms shaded the area where I stood, sunlight filtering through their leaves. A group of guys played basketball, talking smack to each other, and Tristan was in the group.
I snorted. I thought I’d been walking aimlessly. So how, of all places I could wind up in Cape Heron—Fifth Street, my usual beach, the library, the ice cream shop, all within four blocks of our cottage—did I end up here, nearly a mile away from home? Right where Tristan was? Talk about a magnet being pulled . . .
I told myself I was being ridiculous. I told myself to turn around and go home. To listen to my mother. To trust her sense of truth. But how could our senses be at such odds? Of course, she never said she felt the truth about Tristan hurting me. Not so specifically, as she usually did when she was relying on her sixth sense. And I did know what my sense told me: his intentions were good.
With that thought, I did what any sensible young woman would do. I hid behind the banyan tree and spied on the basketball game.
I quickly realized there was only one other person on Tristan’s team, and to my surprise, it was Owen. I shouldn’t have been too shocked—this was a retirement town and half of the Cape’s young set was probably on that court. Although the teams weren’t even, two against five, it was obvious Tristan and Owen were winning. They were good. Really good.
I watched for about five minutes before the game ended. When no one on the other team wanted to play another game, Tristan and Owen decided to play each other. Before they started, Tristan took off his shirt and tossed it to the side of the court. Oh. My. Naturally, I continued spying. Er, observing.
It said a lot about Tristan’s playing ability that it drew my attention away from his chiseled chest and six-pack abs. Now that no one else was around—or so they thought, they still hadn’t noticed me—Tristan and Owen really got into the game. They seemed to be trying to one-up each other as they sped up and down the court, now talking smack to each other, and they were even better than they let on while playing the other team. And Tristan was noticeably better than Owen. It was unreal watching him. He was always at the other end of the court faster than seemed possible. His shots often made the ball a blur. And when he jumped . . . how could anyone jump so high or so far? Sometimes Owen did something nearly as incredible.
Owen made a three-pointer, and Tristan grabbed the ball and shot it from under Owen’s basket, the one closest to me. I watched with amazement as the ball sailed across the court and swished into the opposite net.
Then they both froze with their backs to me.
The ball bounced dejectedly toward the side of the court. They ignored it as they turned in my direction, both in a guarded stance. Oops. I hadn’t realized I’d been creeping closer, watching them in awe, and now I was caught. When they saw me, they both looked like they’d been caught doing something wrong.
Tristan was the first to relax. A warm grin spread, lighting up his face.
“Alexis,” he said, walking over to the chain-link fence surrounding the court.
I relaxed, too; I’d frozen when they had. Since they knew I was there now, I took a few steps closer.
“Hey,” I said stupidly.
“What’s up?” Owen asked, now at the fence, too.
“Um, nothing. I was just taking a walk and saw you guys playing.” I felt like an idiot now, like I’d been caught stalking. Why had I stayed?
“Been watching long?” Owen glanced sideways at Tristan. Something in his tone made me feel even guiltier.
“No, not really.”
“Oh, too bad. ’Cause I was just smokin’ Tristan here,” he said with a laugh, his tone suddenly lighter now.
“Ha! In your dreams, ya scrawny scarecrow,” Tristan teased. I couldn’t help my smile. Although his sleeveless shirt proved Owen wasn’t exactly scrawny, his blond hair stuck out everywhere, so he did look somewhat like a scarecrow.
“C’mon, moose!” Owen ran for the ball and dribbled it between his legs. “We got a game to finish.”
“You’ll stay?” Tristan asked me.
“I should be heading home. It’s a long way back . . . .”
“Please?” He smiled. “You can watch me make hay of the scarecrow.”
I laughed. “All right, for a while, I guess.”
I sat on a small stand of bleachers and watched as they finished their game. It wasn’t nearly as fascinating as it had been earlier; they seemed to be holding back now. By the time Tristan hit forty points, their cutoff, I’d convinced myself of what a fool I’d been, thinking there was even a chance to be more than just friends with him. So I hopped off the bleachers, waved at them, and headed for the beach, the quicker way home. As I stepped onto the sand, I glanced over my shoulder. They both walked in the opposite direction, toward the parking lot, confirming my doubts. After all, if he had any interest, wouldn’t he have called me back over? Yep, I’m such a fool.
“You filthy slut!” a gruff voice snarled, catching my attention.
A man dressed in grease-stained jeans and a T-shirt, a younger woman in a bikini, and a small girl, also in a swimsuit, were coming off the beach. His hand gripped the woman’s upper arm as he dragged her toward the parking lot. Loaded with a bag and beach chair, she had a hard time keeping his pace. The girl, who looked about the same age as the second-grade students I used to tutor, ran after them, stopping frequently to pick up the plastic sand toys she kept dropping.
“Please, baby,” the woman begged, “you’re hurting me.”
“Good! You deserve it. You need to get some damn clothes on.”
“But we’re at the beach.”
“Doesn’t mean you need to be flauntin’ all ya got. You’re a married woman!”
I watched the ground as they crossed my path. Though they were in public, I felt like an intruder. I pretended not to notice the squabble as it heated up behind me and picked up my pace to distance myself, but the voices only became louder.
“Shut the hell up, bitch,” the man yelled.
“Daddy, no!”
I automatically turned at the girl’s scream. The woman lay on the ground, staring wide-eyed at the man, who held his fist in the air as she held her hand over her jaw. The little girl dropped her toys and ran at the man. And as soon as she was within arm’s reach of her dad, the woman was suddenly between them, taking another blow.
The anger built inside me as I watched with horror.
“Daddy, stop it!” The little girl tried to grab her dad’s thick arm.
“Don’t hurt her, Phil,” the woman begged from the ground. “Please don’t hurt her.”
Phil raised his hand again. I don’t know whom he meant it for, but his intentions didn’t matter. As he swung, his daughter threw herself at him, taking the smack in the shoulder. She crumpled to the ground next to her mother.
The anger within me surged to rage. I was madder than I’d even been with James. Blood pounded in my ears, drowning the rest of the world out except for the girl’s sobs. My vision tunneled, and everything around us blurred except this man’s face. With narrowed eyes and flaring nostrils, he showed no signs of surprise at his own actions, let alone regret. He looked like he would do it again if either his daughter or his wife rose from the ground. And the only thought I had was, This human debris needs a dose of his own medicine.
Not even realizing I had moved, I suddenly stood in front of him, pulling my fist back. I threw the punch straight at his jaw.
Chapter 6
CHAPTER 6
The scum’s black eyes widened with shock. He wasn’t a skinny teenage boy, though, and he didn’t soar backward as James had done. But he did stagger a few steps with the force. His hand flew to his jaw, cupping it—a mirror image of his wife. Then his eyes darkened even more with his own rage.
I stood there, frozen in shock at what I’d done. My chest heaved with panted breaths, and my arms hung at my sides, my hands still balled into fists. A dull ache throbbed in my knuckles.
“You need a little lesson, young lady,” he threatened. The mother and daughter both whimpered.
Oh, crap! Crap, crap, crap! My heart raced. What the hell was I thinking? If I’d been thinking clearly, I would have remembered Mom’s self-defense lessons and done something to incapacitate him, like kick him in the balls. But, no, I had been stupid, thinking he would have taken my punch like James had. Or, actually, I hadn’t been thinking at all. My anger dissipated, taking my super strength with it.
Phil rolled his head on his neck, as fighters do when they’re warming up, and then he stepped toward me. My stomach dropped to the ground. My heart gave up its race and just quit beating altogether. But I stood my ground, hands balled at my sides, because at least his attention focused on me now and not the little girl or her mother. I could heal. Hopefully. The whole situation could create a big mess for Mom and me, affecting school and her bookstore, but as Phil advanced again, I had no other option. I glanced at the girl and her mother, using their injuries and fear to muster the anger that would return my abnormal strength. And this time, I’d punch him where he’d remember the pain.
Before I could, though, a large body charged into Phil, and with a thud, he suddenly lay flat on his back on the ground ten yards away. With wide eyes and his mouth hanging open, he stared up at Tristan. A whoosh of air expelled from my lungs, and I lunged for the other two to make sure they were okay.
“I suggest you get out of here now,” Owen, now next to Tristan, said to the wife-beater. His words were polite, but his tone was menacing. I never expected Owen to be so threatening.
“You need to mind your own damn business!” the man barked as he sat up.
“Go!” Tristan bellowed, his fist in the air, his arms bulging with obvious power.
Phil winced, and his face paled under his dark tan. He scrambled to his feet and moved toward his wife. Tristan stepped between them.
“NOW!” he roared.
Phil bolted for the parking lot. Tristan followed, his fists clenched. I sat with the mother and daughter, shaking uncontrollably, wondering what he would do. I didn’t want to watch, but I couldn’t make myself turn away yet. The mom and daughter watched Tristan, too, their tear-filled eyes wide with fear.
“Tristan, let him go!” Owen called after him. Tristan took a couple more steps, then stopped. Phil jumped into an orange, older model Camaro and peeled out. Owen rushed over to us. “You okay?”
I blew out the breath I’d been holding.
“I’m fine.” I nodded at Tristan. His temper worried me. “Is he?”
“I don’t know.” Owen walked toward Tristan as he headed back to us, and they both stopped within a few feet of each other.
“Did he hurt her?” Tristan demanded.
“Alexis is fine. Are you?”
Tristan nodded. “What about the other two?”
They started back toward us. The little girl sobbed next to me as she held her shoulder. The mother shook her head, dark strands sticking in the tears flowing down her bruising cheek.
“We need to go home,” she whispered.
“You can’t go home!” I gasped. “Won’t he be there?”
“Not yet. He’ll come later. But the longer we’re gone, the worse it’ll be,” she explained.
“Then don’t go.”
“You don’t understand . . .”
She was right. I had no clue why she would want to go home to the bastard.
“Is there anywhere else you can go? We can take you somewhere.”
The woman didn’t answer me, but stood up and brushed herself off. She pulled a pair of cutoff shorts and a T-shirt out of her beach bag and put them on. She held out a sundress to her daughter, who slowly rose to her feet, wincing as she put weight on her left foot. The mother then pulled keys out of her bag and shook them.
“We’ll go to my sister’s.” She tried a smile. It looked forced. “I drove us here. I can get us to her house.”
“Isn’t there something we can do for you?” Tristan asked.
She bit her lip and blinked rapidly against the tears filling her eyes. She answered quietly, “I think you’ve done enough.”
She turned and headed toward her car. Her daughter tried to follow, limping and still holding her shoulder. Tristan gently scooped her up, and he and Owen followed her mom to a blue Ford coupe as I just stood there, watching. Disbelieving what just happened.
My mind flew through the last few minutes, trying to determine the potential consequences. Last time I’d punched someone, we’d had to move immediately, and I wasn’t ready to move again. I liked it here.
But this time was different.
I may have looked stupid, trying to take on a full-grown, stout man, but at least he hadn’t flown ridiculously far from my punch. At least I hadn’t looked freakishly strong. The coward he was, Phil would never admit that a small, young woman had nearly taken him down. But his wife . . . would she tell anyone? Probably not, but only, sadly, because she feared her own husband.
So that left Owen and Tristan. What had they seen? They’d been worried about me, but weren’t shocked at my behavior. Did they only see Phil threatening me? Did they not witness what I’d done to him? Could I be so lucky?
Tristan set the little girl down in the passenger seat of her mom’s car, then he and Owen watched as they left, Tristan taking a few steps forward, as if he wanted to follow them. I thought about sneaking off, down the beach, but Owen turned to me right then and waved me over. I needed to find out exactly what they saw anyway. Because if it was anything worth mentioning—even if he just thought it stupid or brave—Owen would probably tell Mom everything.
“She’ll go back to him,” Tristan muttered as I walked up.
“Seriously?” I asked.
“Probably,” Owen said. “But we’ve done all we can.”
“No, we haven’t,” Tristan grumbled, that steely undertone in his voice.
“Tristan . . . leave it alone,” Owen warned, eyeing him carefully. “Maybe you should go. I’ll take Alexis home.”
Tristan spun around. “I’ll take her.”
Owen shook his head. “That’s not a good idea. Sophia⁠—”
“Sophia can deal with it!” Tristan barked, apparently not over his anger. I cringed, and his eyes flew to me.
It was very fast and I could have imagined it, but for half a second I thought I saw what Carlie might have been talking about. The flecks of gold in his eyes looked different, more like sparks of fire. His eyes looked . . . frightening. Maybe everyone else had been right. I waited for the nudge to return. Or even for the alarms. But nothing happened.
He must have seen something in my own expression, though. His face immediately softened, and his body relaxed. What anger he might have had just a second earlier—whether at the wife-beater or at my mom, I wasn’t sure—didn’t show in his eyes as he studied my face.
“Are you sure you’re okay?” he asked, his voice returning to its smooth and silky self. Again, he was worried about me, as if I’d been the one punched.
I forced a small smile and went with it. “Yeah, I’m fine. Just a little scared. Are you sure you are?”
The gold flecks sparkled now as he smiled slowly. He nodded. “If you are, I am.”
I turned to Owen and wished I could know his thoughts. If he saw what I’d done and took me home, he might make a big deal of it with Mom. Of course, if I let Tristan take me home, Owen could always call her, and I wouldn’t know until I faced her. It didn’t matter. He worked for her. If he had anything to tell her, he’d have plenty of opportunity to do it any time. And if I had to choose whom to take me home . . .
“Thanks for the offer, Owen,” I said, “but Tristan can take me. I’ll handle Sophia.”
Owen narrowed his eyes as they bounced between Tristan and me.
“I’m gonna lose my job,” he said with a sigh.
“No, you won’t,” I promised. “It’s not exactly in your job description to be worried about how I get home.”
He muttered something under his breath. Tristan smiled, as if he’d heard.
“You’re sure?” Owen asked me as he turned for his car.
“I’m positive. Sophia will get over it. Besides . . . it’s not like she’s my mother.” So, that wasn’t exactly true, but they didn’t know.
Owen snorted, jogged to his car, and left.
I looked up at Tristan. “You really don’t mind?”
The corners of his mouth twitched. “A little late to be asking, don’t you think?”
“So . . . you do mind? You need to be somewhere else? I can walk . . .”
After all that happened, I really didn’t want to walk all the way home by myself now. But I would if I had to.
He chuckled. “I said I’d take you home.”
He put his thumb under my chin and tilted my face up toward his. That strange current pulsed through my jaw and up to my temples. He gazed into my eyes, creating a slow burn in my belly.
“There’s nowhere I’d rather be,” he murmured. The burn bloomed into a fire within. He smiled before letting go. “Ever been on a bike before?”
I followed him to the motorcycle, pleased it wasn’t the crotch-rocket he usually rode to campus. After he swung his leg over it, the Harley came to life with its distinctive rumble. I climbed onto the backseat, looked around for something to hold on to, and found chrome handholds on each side of the seat. He looked over his shoulder at me and glanced down at my hands. He probably expected me to hold on to him. Part of me wanted to, but I wasn’t quite ready to press my front against any part of him. I mean, I’d thought about it a lot—probably way more than I should—but unlike the boobalicious babes, I couldn’t bring myself to actually do it.
“Ready?” he asked.
I nodded.
The bike rumbled under us through the streets of the Cape, and I thought he might have been trying to change my mind. More than once, we took a turn that nearly had me grabbing for him, and I might have if not so scared to loosen my grip on the handholds. When we pulled up to the house, Mom’s car was already in the driveway. I hoped she would stay inside and mind her own business.
“Thank you,” I said as Tristan and I stood in the driveway. “For everything, I mean.”
He smiled, but it didn’t reach his eyes. “Did I scare you?”
“Um, no,” I lied.
“I’m sorry. I was a little pissed off.”
Yeah, me, too. I smiled to show him it was okay.
“What were you thinking anyway?” he demanded.
Son of a witch.  He had seen it all. And now he’d want an explanation. At least he wasn’t staring at me like I was some kind of mutant. At least he was even here, in my driveway—he hadn’t left me at the park, so he couldn’t be too freaked out.
“You looked like you wanted to hit him or something,” he added.
I blew out a breath, fighting the urge to whoop with relief. Okay, he didn’t see everything. He and Owen must have turned just in time to see Phil advancing on me, before I was about to hit him again.
“I don’t know.” I shrugged, trying to blow it off. “It made me so mad to see him hurt them. I just wanted to stop him, and it worked, I guess. For now, anyway.” I sighed at the thought that I’d probably made things even worse for the woman and her daughter. I’d been so stupid. “I’m just glad you got there when you did.”
“Me, too.” He looked into my eyes, and I saw something unreadable in his. Concern? It was still there when he changed the subject. “So, what was with you today? I tried to catch up with you after the meeting, but you took off like a bat out of hell. You seemed lost in thought all afternoon.”
The team meeting felt so long ago now, it took me a moment to realize what he meant. Of course, he’d noticed. He usually walked me to my car, and I hadn’t even thought about it. “Yeah, I guess I was . . . lost in thought. Sorry if I was rude.”
When I looked up at him, he seemed to search my eyes for an explanation. I didn’t give one. I couldn’t tell him about Mom’s or Carlie’s opinions.
He held my eyes as he lifted his hand to my face and stroked a current across my cheek. A shudder tried to work its way down my spine, but I fought it back.
“You’ll make it up to me,” he said with a smile.
“I can do that,” I promised with my own grin.
And with perfect timing, the cottage’s front door opened.
“Alexis,” Mom said sharply.
I didn’t take my eyes off Tristan to look at her. I couldn’t take my eyes off him. He held them, trapped within his gaze.
“Come in the house,” Mom ordered. “I need to talk to you.”
Of course you want to talk now.
I sighed and finally pulled my eyes away from the beautiful hazel ones.
“I better go,” I muttered.
“See you later, ma lykita,” he said quietly.
I raised an eyebrow. He smiled and shook his head. Mom cleared her throat from the door, and I sighed with frustration.
I gave Tristan an apologetic smile and then marched into the house. I spun on her, ready to tell her how much her timing sucked when I noticed the suitcase by the door. My stomach turned over. Owen must have called her. This was what she had to talk to me about.
“We have to move?” I said. “But I⁠—”
Her brows furrowed, and then her face softened, as did her voice. “Oh, no, honey. I’m sorry. I’m just going out of town for a couple days.”
Whew. So Owen hadn’t said anything, and unless she became aware of something, she had no reason to feel for the truth.
“I . . . have a booksellers’ convention to go to. You know, my first holiday season coming up, I need to make sure I know everything I should be doing.” She spoke a little too quickly and wouldn’t look directly at me, but I had no idea why she’d lie to me. “Owen said he can come in at one tomorrow and close up, if you can open the store and stay until then. Of course, we’re closed Sunday, and I’ll be back Sunday night.”
“No problem,” I muttered.
She searched my face for a long moment. “Do me a favor, please? Keep your distance from Tristan at least until I get back? We can talk about it then, okay?”
I shrugged. I hadn’t really planned on seeing him anyway. I never saw him on the weekends.
“Please? Promise?” She nodded her head, part of her persuasion technique. Next, she would reach out to touch my hand or arm.
I glowered at her, refusing to let her get to me. “No, I won’t promise. It probably won’t matter, but I won’t make any promises I don’t want to keep.”
Her eyes hardened as she studied my face. She didn’t even try her next move.
“Fine,” she snapped. “I’ll see you Sunday night.”
She grabbed her suitcase, and I headed for the kitchen and my room. I heard the front door open, and almost in a whisper, she said, “I love you.”
I sighed. “I love you, too.”
I turned around, but the door was already closed. I didn’t know if she heard me.
I walked over to the front window in the living room to watch her through the blinds, guilt filling my heart because she’d left on such a sour note. To my astonishment, Tristan was still there, leaning against Mom’s car as she dropped her suitcase in the trunk. Why hadn’t he left? Is he going to bust me? Perhaps Owen wasn’t the one I should have been worried about. I sat on the floor, my back to the wall next to the open window so they couldn’t see me, but it meant I couldn’t watch them. I could only listen. And my worries were way off base.
“Stay away from her, Tristan,” Mom ordered. “She’s not ready yet.”
“You mean you’re not ready yet.”
“That, too.”
“It’s out of your hands, Sophia.”
“We’ll see about that.” A second of silence.
“You’re going to see them, aren’t you?”
Mom answered with her own question. “When was the last time you saw your . . . kin?”
“I’ve never gone back, and I never will.” Complete sureness in his voice.
“And you expect me to trust you?”
Tristan sighed. “You have to, don’t you?”
“Why should I? She’s my daughter, for heaven’s sake.” Oh! She just blew our cover! My breath caught, and my hand flew to my mouth, afraid they’d heard.
“It’s time to let go. I think she’ll be okay.”
“You think? I need more than that, Tristan. I need one-hundred-percent surety!”
More silence. When Tristan spoke, his voice was low and grim. “You know I can’t give you that.”
“Exactly.” Her icy tone sent a chill to my bones. Her car door slammed, and the engine started. She peeled out of the driveway, and a minute later, the motorcycle fired up and rumbled away.
I threw myself across the couch and stared at the ceiling. What the hell just happened? I’d been so worried about the incident in the park, and this was even crazier. Mom and Tristan apparently knew each other. Well enough that Tristan knew where Mom was really going, and Mom believed she couldn’t trust him with me. What is going on with them?
I mentally played back the conversation several times, trying to figure it out. Then realization dawned on me. Mom had mentioned his kin—she must have dated his father or brother or other relative.
She’d had many boyfriends over the years, and it always ended badly. She never explained what happened with most of them, whom she seemed to love one day and couldn’t get away from fast enough the next. We moved immediately after every break-up. I could only figure she was unable to love a man and let him love her, because they were usually good men, according to my sense. Except for Lenny . . .
My mind flashed the memory of Mom throwing Lenny across the room, his body hitting the wall with a thud, blood smears on the white paint as his limp form slid to the floor. Two minutes before, he’d tried to kiss me. I was twelve. “Don’t worry, he’s not dead,” she had said once we were in the car, driving to a new city. I shivered at the memory. He was seedy and vile and, if they were related, it would explain her reaction to seeing Tristan. It would also explain his non-reaction when Mom said I was her daughter.
But why did they hide this from me? Why all the secrets?
The phone’s ringing startled me out of my thoughts, and I blinked in the near darkness that filled the room—I’d lain there long enough for the sun to move fully to the west side of the house. I searched blindly for the phone on the end table.
“Hello?” My voice sounded rough, thick from the big lump in my throat.
“Is it safe?” Tristan’s lovely voice. “From Sophia, I mean.”
I didn’t know what to say at first and briefly considered lying, but there was no point. After all, I hid just as much as he did, probably more. Besides, if my theory was correct, it wasn’t fair for us to hold Lenny or anyone else against him. And whatever Mom was so concerned about, it couldn’t be too bad—she’d made it clear to him I’d be home alone.
“Yeah. Actually, she’s gone for the weekend.”
“Ah.” The line fell silent for a moment, then, “Would you like to go to the beach with me? The sun will be setting soon.”
Such a banal question. He wasn’t asking me to go clubbing or jump in bed with him. He asked me to go to the beach and watch the sun set. So insipid it was almost cliché.
But, for me, it was the question of my life. At least to this point of it. Tristan had asked me out. Asked me out! Well, sort of. Close enough. It was certainly a step in a new direction from hanging out on campus and running into each other around town.
My answer could literally be life-changing. Mom had just asked me not to see him until she returned and we could discuss it, so she wouldn’t be happy with me. At all. My answer had to be mine, though, not my mother’s.
Saying “yes,” however, could be my biggest mistake ever. Perhaps he was dangerous, as Carlie had said. Perhaps he would hurt me, as Mom had warned. Taking this next step with him was opening my heart up—just a tiny bit, but more than I had since James had caused me to seal it shut. And if he did hurt me, I’d have no one to blame but myself.
But rejecting him likely meant losing any chance with him whatsoever. Missing out on something that could be truly amazing. Always wondering what might have been. And going back to living in solitude and having to watch him from a distance as he moved on to the next girl. That thought bothered me, more than it should.
I could either walk through this door that he’d opened, or I could shut it forever. Either way was a risk. But taking such risks, making such decisions was part of being an adult. Sometimes being an adult sucked.
Chapter 7
CHAPTER 7
“Alexis?” Tristan asked, still waiting for my answer.
I swallowed, my throat dry and sticky. Then I made my decision—I followed my heart and gut, hoping I wasn’t about to do irreversible harm to my relationship with Mom. Or about to destroy myself.
“Um, yeah. That’d be great.”
“I’ll be there in five minutes.” I could hear the smile in his voice.
Not able to sit still, I waited outside, pacing the driveway. I heard the Harley from more than a block away, and butterflies fluttered in my stomach by the time Tristan arrived.
“Ride or walk?” he asked over the rumble after pulling into the driveway.
“Let’s walk.”
Our cottage was less than two blocks to the beach, the street covered with the broad canopies of the many-legged banyan trees that were larger than the Old Florida-style cottages they guarded. It was a gorgeous evening, the warmth of the afternoon still hanging in the air. We walked in silence the entire way.
I tried to ignore all the questions soaring through my mind, because they all had to do with a conversation I probably wasn’t supposed to hear. I wished I had the chutzpah to flat out ask him who he was and what happened between him and my mother, but there were two problems with seeking answers.
One, an interrogation would likely lead to me being on the other end—the one answering questions instead of asking. If I wanted to know more about Tristan, then I had to be prepared for him to know more about me. And I wasn’t ready for that yet. At least, not the deep stuff. He already knew one of my biggest secrets, that Sophia was my mother. Surely he had to have his own questions about how that could be, which led to the second problem. Two, getting into the deeper conversation about all of our secrets meant giving up any kind of normalcy to our relationship—or whatever it became. And I wasn’t ready for that, either.
I was probably lying to myself, trying to make it all more than it could ever be. But, for now, I wanted to at least pretend this was a normal girl-meets-boy situation.
“Penny for your thoughts?” Tristan asked, breaking the silence as we crossed the boardwalk accessing the beach.
“Hmph. They’re worth more than that,” I teased.
He chuckled. “Okay, a Benji for your thoughts?”
“Huh?”
He pulled a one-hundred-dollar bill from his pocket. I raised my eyebrows, and he put it away, laughing. “You’re right. Your thoughts are priceless.”
We walked to the edge of the water, kicked off our shoes, and then turned and meandered along the wet sand. It gave me a chance to rework my thoughts before sharing them.
“I wouldn’t go that far,” I finally said, “but . . . I was just thinking that we’ve been hanging out for a couple months now, and I hardly know anything about you.”
“Ah. What do you want to know?” He peered down at me from the corner of his eye, seemingly hesitant—like I felt when someone asked about me.
“Um, well, where are you from?” That was an easy one, especially in Florida. Hardly anyone was from here.
He was silent for a moment, as if it was difficult to answer, and then said cryptically, “Lots of places . . . nowhere in particular.”
I could relate to that. It could be my own answer.
“So . . . you moved around a lot?”
He shrugged. “You could put it that way.”
“What do your parents do?”
“They don’t do anything. They died a long time ago.”
“Oh.” Oops. I didn’t know I was headed into heavy stuff. “I’m sorry.”
He looked down at me and smiled gently. “You didn’t know. I hardly remember them anyway. It was a long time ago. I was raised by . . . distant relatives, I guess you could say.”
“Did they bring you here?”
“Oh, no, I came here alone.” There was that steely undertone again. “I’ve been on my own for quite a while.”
More silence as I thought for a minute. I remembered what he’d told Mom . . . he’d never gone back and he never will. How awful it must be to lose his parents and then to have to live with what must have been dreadful relatives, people like Lenny. My theory must have been true. It was probably best to leave that subject alone.
“So where were these ‘lots of places’ you grew up?” I asked to divert the conversation.
“Pretty much everywhere, but mostly Europe.”
“Really?” That one surprised me. “But you don’t have any kind of accent.”
He chuckled.
“I’ve been in the U.S. for a few years, and I adapt easily. I’m one of those who can be somewhere for a week and start talking like the locals.” He changed his tone and spoke with a perfect English cadence, “Would you rahther I hahd an ahccent?” Then he switched to French, rolling the R’s, “Or, pear’aps Francais eez better, ma lykita?”
I laughed. Although I couldn’t understand it all, the French accent awakened a giddiness in my belly.
“Do you speak other languages, then?”
“Seven altogether.”
“Wow,” I breathed. I tried to imagine growing up in Europe, living as transient a life as we had, but in places such as London, Rome, and Paris. I probably glamorized it, but it seemed much more exciting than my life.
“If you came here by yourself, what brought you here?”
He didn’t answer at first and kicked at a wave. Then he shrugged and said, “Just needed a change.”
“Oh.” That was a non-answer.
He looked down at me. “Actually, I want to be honest with you. I came here for a job . . . or an assignment is more like it . . . and stayed because I like the people.”
“Oh, okay.” I knew he’d had a job or some kind of business, and he had mentioned once about having lots of things going on in his life, but he never talked about any of those.
“But if I told you any more, I’d have to kill you.” His tone was serious, and I looked up in surprise. He laughed.
“Oh, I see. CIA or FBI?” I played along, remembering the old secret-agent movies Mom liked to watch. “Oh, wait, probably Scotland Yard. Or maybe the KGB?” I widened my eyes in mock horror.
He laughed again. “You’re way off.”
“I’ll figure it out,” I promised lightheartedly.
He frowned, and his tone darkened. “Yes, I’m sure you will. Some day.”
“Would that be bad?”
The frown quickly disappeared, as if he hadn’t realized it was there until I said that. He peered down at me as we walked a few steps in silence. “I don’t know yet.”
Honesty and seriousness filled his tone . . . and a bit of sadness. I sighed in frustration. He raised more questions than he answered.
“Something wrong?” he asked.
I wanted to tell him how annoyingly cryptic he was. But I didn’t. Because he could always turn that back at me.
“No, I guess not.”
“We better turn around,” he said.
I looked behind us and saw we had walked much farther than I realized. We played in the water on the way back, kicking it up at each other and running away from the splashes, then he took my hand and pulled me to dry sand, where we sat to watch the sunset. We gazed in silence, both in the same position—knees pulled up, arms wrapped around our legs. I rested my chin on my knees.
God displayed his divine artistic ability, painting the sky with brushstrokes of dark violet, lavender, magenta, and soft pink against a light blue canvas, with a bright splash of gold at the horizon reflecting on the water. Waves gently lapped at the sand, and seagulls cawed at each other. I inhaled deeply, trying to pull the entire scene into my body and embed it in my memory as one of those perfect moments to be cherished forever. The brackishness of salt water and the sweet-tanginess of Tristan’s scent nearly intoxicated me.
I turned my head and Tristan cocked his to look at me, his beautiful eyes sparkling, immediately calming me. In fact, I’d never felt so content. His conversation with Sophia seemed vague and nonsensical now. He was right. She needed to let go. Because I wanted to be nowhere else than right here with him.
“Ready?” he finally asked.
I frowned. Ready to go back to my empty house and spend the evening alone? No, not really.
“I can hang out with you, if you want,” he said, as if reading my mind.
“That sounds . . .” Wonderful. Fabulous. Perfect. “. . . good.”
Not ready to have him in my room, I took him through the front door of the cottage instead of my private entrance. As soon as we entered, though, I panicked. I hadn’t been truly alone with anyone besides my mother in years. I suddenly realized just how inexperienced I was—not just in the whole man-woman thing, but in any kind of relationship or socialization in general. What little bit I knew that came from books and observation escaped my mind the moment the door closed. I stopped abruptly in the small foyer, not knowing what to do in my own house.
“I’ll be right back.” I dashed into the hall bathroom and couldn’t close the door fast enough. I leaned against the back of the door and took deep, calming breaths. My stomach twisted itself into knots, untwisted, and twisted again. What do we do? Eat? Watch TV? What if he’s bored? Oh! What if he’s expecting something? How much would I give?  I jumped at the knock on the door.
“Alexis?” Concern filled Tristan’s voice. I could only imagine how terrified my face looked before I fled to the bathroom. “I was thinking . . . I’m starving. You want to go get a pizza at Mario’s?”
I inhaled deeply, picturing it. Public place. Lots of people. Not my normal preference, being an introvert, but exactly what I needed now, and he seemed to know it. After another deep, cleansing breath, I opened the door and said, more calmly than I thought possible, “That’d be great.”
Located a couple of blocks down Fifth from Mom’s bookstore, Mario’s was a pizza-parlor-slash-bar. When we arrived at nearly nine o’clock, it took on more of a bar atmosphere. The lights were dimmed, and neon beer signs glowed colorfully on the walls. The jukebox played oldies music, and people talked and laughed loudly over it. We shared a sausage-and-mushroom pizza, and after eating, Tristan somehow convinced me to play darts.
He was excellent at it. I sucked. He seemed to be able to easily zero in on his target—several times I swore he aimed away from the bulls-eye to prove he could “miss.” Most of the time I couldn’t hit the board, let alone any specific place on it.
Tristan’s close eye on me didn’t help. He leaned against a table about halfway to the dartboard and to my right, watching me with an amused expression. He made me nervous. I held the dart in my hand, up near my face, eyeing the board—no particular place, just the board in general. It’s a big enough area. Surely I can hit it at least once. Just before I let the dart go, my eyes slipped to Tristan.
And the dart flew. And missed the board. By a long shot.
“Oh, shit!” Both hands flew to my mouth as I stared at the dart lodged in his bicep. I stabbed Mr. Beautiful! He raised his eyebrows in a what-the-hell-did-you-do way, and I hurried over to him. “I’m so sorry. Are you okay?”
He grimaced. “I don’t know.”
I lifted my hand gingerly to pull the dart out. He flinched, and I jumped back.
“Don’t touch it. Aren’t you supposed to leave these things for the doctor to remove?”
I fretfully bounced on the balls of my feet. “Then what do I do?”
The grimace disappeared, and a huge grin spread across Tristan’s face as he easily plucked the dart out of his arm. He leaned forward and whispered, “You can kiss it and make it better.”
I narrowed my eyes and scowled at him. He burst into laughter.
“I’m . . . sorry . . . but . . . you . . . should’ve . . . seen . . . your face.” He nearly fell over from his belly laughs.
I crossed my arms against my chest and glowered at him. I couldn’t hold it for long, though. He laughed so hard, and he was so dang irresistible. I couldn’t help it. I started laughing, too.
“I am seriously sorry,” I said again once we regained our composure. “I can’t believe I did that. Are you really okay?”
He lifted his sleeve. The only evidence of my assault was a minuscule hole, though I was sure the steel-tipped dart had pierced at least half an inch through his skin. I exhaled with relief, expecting it to be worse.
“I think I’ll live.” He gave me a cocky grin. “But you are rather dangerous. Let me show you how it’s done before you really hurt someone.”
He stood close behind me and tried to teach me the proper way to hold the dart and when to let it go, but the electricity from every touch distracted me. We laughed at my absurd technique. I had more fun than I’d had in a long time—maybe ever.
When he slid the bike into the driveway a little after midnight, though, the panic started to set in again. Not like earlier, but enough to make my stomach flutter.
“Did you have fun?” Tristan asked as he walked me to the door.
“Yeah, I did. Thank you.”
“My pleasure. Maybe we can do it again sometime?”
I took a breath to steady my nerves and looked up at him as we stood on the front porch. “Hmm . . . you’re brave.”
He chuckled. “I’ll just be sure to stand behind you next time.”
“You saw my throws. That doesn’t guarantee anything.”
“Yeah, you’re right.” He smiled. “But I’ll take my chances.”
My heart raced as I looked into his sparkling eyes and wondered if he was thinking about kissing me.
“I better let you get some rest,” he murmured.
“Mmm, yeah. I do have to open the store in the morning.”
He held my gaze for a moment and then cupped his hand gently around the side of my face. My skin tingled. Then he leaned over and ever so lightly brushed his lips across my cheek, then whispered in my ear, “Good night, ma lykita.”
I closed my eyes as the sensations washed over me—his smell, the warm breath on my ear, the electric touch on my face.
“’Night,” I breathed. He let go of me, and when I opened my eyes, he was already halfway down the walk. Electricity still pulsed on my skin and throughout my body. Part of me wanted to call him back, but, with a heavy sigh, I turned and went inside instead.
The small cottage was quiet and usually comforting. It was one of the few places we lived that actually felt like home. Usually, our moves required leaving everything behind except the bare necessities, but since we actually brought our belongings this time, they were at least familiar, if not nostalgic. Mom decorated in browns and beiges, but with leather and wood furniture and chenille and silk throw pillows, the variety of textures kept it from being boring. Rather, it was cozy and calming, like “Mom’s place” should be.
I was scared to death to be here alone.
I paced the cottage several times, mentally going through self-defense motions. Being alone at night for the first time ever—Mom had never left me before—brought renewed fear. Not fear of those others, who couldn’t possibly exist. Time and distance had caused that memory to fade to the point where I doubted any of it actually happened. I felt foolish now for being so afraid of a dream. But the wife-beater, on the other hand . . . what if he sought revenge?
I whirled on a whispered sound, my heart hammering. It stopped when I did. Then I realized it was only my own feet sliding across the tile floor.
Feeling the emotional tolls of the day, I finally talked myself into going to bed. But while lying in my bedroom, my eyes wouldn’t shut and my ears strained, my mind imagining various monstrosities lurking in the main part of the house. Eventually, I curled up on the couch in the living room with all the lights on, and, somehow, sleep overcame me. I awoke several times, thinking I heard something outside, but when I listened, all was quiet, and I drifted back to sleep.
Chapter 8
CHAPTER 8
The store felt empty and ominous when I first arrived, but I came early to have a little extra time before opening. Mom kept a small office in the back room, and I thought she might be more likely to hide something here than at home, where I might find it. I tugged on all the drawers of her desk and filing cabinet, but, of course, they didn’t budge, locked against intruders . . . and snoopers like me. There were no loose papers on her desk and only one large, flat envelope in her inbox. She was annoyingly organized.
I glanced at the single piece of mail, and my eye caught on the corner where the return address should be. Instead of an address, though, embossed into the paper was the word Amadis and a vaguely familiar design that looked like a sword with wings. I picked the envelope up and studied it closer, holding it to the light, but I couldn’t read anything inside. I briefly debated whether I could get away with opening it and resealing it, but eventually dropped it back into the tray. It was probably from a publisher, and I had seen the symbol on a book’s spine. Or, for all I knew, it was only junk mail, not worth the risk of breaking Mom’s trust. Any more than I already had, anyway.
Curiosity gripped me all morning, though. I impatiently waited for Owen to relieve me of my duties, taking the time to answer his questions of how I was after yesterday only so I could confirm he hadn’t seen me punch Phil. Then I hurried home to search Mom’s room. I didn’t expect to find anything I hadn’t already discovered while unpacking, but there was something right on her nightstand. A lone piece of paper with that strange word “Amadis” printed at the top. The paper contained a list of names with numbers next to them. Some were obviously phone numbers; others had the wrong number of digits, and I didn’t know what they meant.
Two names stood out: Katerina and Stefan. Katerina because it was my middle name. Does the name on this paper mean anything? The number next to it wasn’t a phone number. I wasn’t sure why Stefan struck me. The name felt familiar, but I couldn’t place it.
A sticky note with Mom’s handwriting clung to the bottom corner of the page:
Alexis, This is for emergency use only. If Owen can’t help you, call these people until you reach one. They will know what to do. If this is not an emergency, though, you put us at risk. SO STOP SNOOPING! Love, Mom
I chuckled. She knew I’d be prying. I put the paper back and lay on her bed, thinking. What did Amadis mean? Who were the people on the list? Did she actually go to see one of them this weekend? And how would I be putting us at risk? That last question made me anxious. I knew Mom well enough to know she wouldn’t joke about this. Is just calling them risky? Or is all of my research? I sighed. Regardless of the answers, my research and snooping only led to more unanswered questions.
I tried to study, but my mind drifted in various directions, eventually toward Tristan. I didn’t know when I’d see him again, and as the afternoon wore on and evening encroached, I really didn’t want to be alone. As if in response to my thoughts, the sound of a motorcycle resonated right outside the cottage. I sprang from my bed and sprinted across the kitchen and to the front window. My breath caught.
Tristan still sat on the metallic-blue crotch-rocket, looking like a dream. He ran his hand through his windblown, sandy-brown hair, slightly taming the wild look. His muscles strained against his just-tight-enough T-shirt, tucked into faded jeans cinched at the waist with a black belt. He slowly pulled the dark sunglasses off and studied the cottage, his eyes sparkling brightly. I almost expected to see cameras—he looked like a model in a photo shoot. Is he really here for me?
He swung his leg over the bike. I beat him to the door.
“Guess I can’t sneak up on you,” he said, smiling.
“I seem to be specially tuned to the sound of motorcycles.”
He chuckled. I hoped he understood my innuendo.
“So, I have these exams to study for, and I thought it wouldn’t suck so bad if I was sitting on the beach,” he said, then added with a smile, “and if you were there, too.”
My stomach quivered. “Just give me a sec, okay?”
I hurried inside, threw my books into my bag, and grabbed a beach blanket. Tristan took my bag from me, and we walked again, but not in silence this time. We talked about how boring the day had been for each of us so far and how we’d both been procrastinating on studying.
Once on the beach, we spread the blanket out on the sand and then spread our women’s studies books out on the blanket. We read in silence, stopping now and then to ask each other a question or make a comment. More than once we discussed the differences in how each gender thinks. He didn’t act superior at all and seemed genuinely interested in learning the thought patterns of females . . . well, at least mine.
“Of course, I’m not exactly your typical girl, so take it for what it’s worth,” I said while packing my books. I stretched out on my back, staring at the white wisps sailing across the blue sky. My brain couldn’t take another minute of studying, and the sun was low anyway, hovering just over the horizon, like a timid swimmer not quite ready to make the plunge.
Tristan packed his things, too, and tossed his backpack to a corner of the blanket. He lay on his side, facing me.
“I think it’s worth a lot,” he said. “And I’m glad you’re not the typical girl.”
He picked up my hand and turned it over, then traced the lines on my palm with his finger, having crossed that no-touch boundary last night. I continued staring at the sky, the cloud wisps turning a peachy-gold color against a deepening blue background. I tried to control my breathing as the electricity radiated up my arm, wondering what caused it. Was it just because his touch was new? Or just so dang thrilling?
I pondered what he would think when he eventually found out just how atypical I was. It was only a matter of time—one small cut on the finger was usually all it took. Of course, I reminded myself, he already knew more than he should, seemingly more than I even knew. Because I knew so little.
“What are you thinking?” he asked quietly. I turned my head to look at him. He watched his fingers on my hand, now moving them along my wrist and inner arm, light as a feather. I fought the natural urge to pull back from the tickle.
“About how you know more about me than I do about you,” I said honestly.
“Ah. But you’re wrong. I know so little about you. You don’t share much. I can’t even tell how you’re feeling most of the time.”
Good. I’m doing my job then. The wall’s still holding. But I frowned because I really didn’t want to push him away. “Tell me what you want to know, and maybe I’ll give you an answer.”
“See what I mean?” He raised his eyes to mine, and they looked hurt, making my heart squeeze with sadness. He must have seen it in my own eyes. “I’m sorry. I’ll give you space, and you can share when you feel comfortable. I won’t push you.”
“Thank you,” I whispered.
He sat up and tugged on my hand, pulling me up, too. “Let’s just watch the sun set.”
He pulled me between his legs, my back against him. I drew my knees up, and he curled his body around my back, his chin resting on my shoulder, his face right next to mine. His tangy-sweet breath made my head buzz pleasantly. He draped his arms around my shoulders and held my hands in each of his, entwining our fingers. That strange electric current flowed around and between us as we gazed out over the water, completely silent except for our hearts. I could feel both racing.
“Lovely,” he breathed in my ear.
“Yes, it is,” I whispered, afraid anything louder would blow the moment away.
“I didn’t mean the sunset,” he murmured, his lips close enough to my cheek to tickle.
He let go of my left hand and slid the back of his fingers along my jaw from my chin to my ear. I fought a tremor and turned toward him so I could look into his beautiful face. The emerald green of his eyes shone brightly, and the gold flecks danced in the reflection of the setting sun. His lips pulled into a small but tantalizing smile. And I knew then what was coming. My heart flipped erratically.
His hand cupped around my face, and he gently pulled it up to his. He hesitated, still gazing intently into my eyes, his face less than an inch from mine, our noses nearly touching. The rest of the world disappeared as his eyes held mine. The sounds of the waves and the seagulls faded out so all I heard was my heart pounding and his thumb lightly brushing against my cheek. He must have heard my heart whirring like a hummingbird’s wings, because he smiled and held his other hand to my chest as if to quiet it. The usual calming effect he had on me didn’t work. It sped even faster.
He leaned in slightly, and his lips barely touched mine.
A spark jumped between us, and we both flinched.
Then we moved into each other and let the electricity fly. He pressed his lips against mine, soft and full, moving tenderly but longingly. My mouth parted, and his delicious scent and breath coated my tongue, making me want more. My lips moved with his, our tongues met and tasted, and electricity charged through my body, warming places that had never been so warm before. My heart stopped, and I forgot how to breathe. We both finally pulled back to catch our breaths.
“Can you tell what I’m feeling now?” I whispered breathlessly.
“I’m not sure.” He smiled. “Let me try again.”
He cupped the back of my head, and I placed my hands on the sides of his face and closed my eyes as he kissed me a second time. The world faded out again. Nothing else mattered. Nothing else even existed but Tristan and me. My fingers slid into his hair, and I pulled him into me, desire rising in my chest as the tip of his tongue lightly traced my bottom lip. I leaned into him, nearly giving in to the sudden and ridiculous urge to climb up and attack his whole face with my mouth. Losing control! I forgot to breathe again and finally had to pull away.
I looked into his eyes and froze.
The gold sparks in Tristan’s eyes had turned to flames and for just an instant—not even a second—he actually looked more than just dangerous but . . . murderous. Then the flames disappeared, and his eyes filled with pain. In one swift motion, he closed them and turned his head away from me. There was something wrong—I hadn’t imagined it—something going on in his head. But the frightening look in his eyes was gone so quickly, I didn’t know exactly what I saw, except for the sadness that followed.
I dropped my hands into my lap and leaned against him. I could hear his heart pounding hard against his ribs, and I wished I could do something for him. His arms held me tightly, as if he was afraid to let go. We sat completely still, calming ourselves, until most of the sky turned dark blue. We lay back down on the blanket, his arms still around me, and we stared silently at the stars as they blinked to life one at a time.
Then both of our stomachs growled, ruining everything. We laughed, sat up, and gathered our belongings. He seemed to have recovered from whatever thought or memory had hurt him so much. I wondered if he’d ever tell me about it, but I didn’t dare ask now. I wasn’t sure I wanted to know.
We cooked dinner together at the cottage. I’d taught myself to cook, with the help of Emeril and Martha, and quite enjoyed it, but it had never been so much fun as it was with Tristan. I had to stop to admire his perfectly sliced peppers and onions. I’d given him the veges, turned away long enough to pop foil-wrapped tortillas in the oven, and when I looked back, he was done, every piece uniformly sized. I was impressed—and intimidated. He cut the prep time in half, and it wasn’t long before we sat down to chicken fajitas.
After cleaning up, we watched a movie. He laughed at the choices I offered, my favorites—Interview with the Vampire, Lost Boys, Hocus Pocus, and The Princess Bride.
“You seem to have a thing for vampires and magic.”
“Yeah, I do,” I admitted with a small smile.
“Really? You like that fantasy stuff?” He seemed surprised.
“The lore fascinates me. You know . . . how it got started, if it was ever based on any kind of truth. I like to believe there’s magic in this world. And that it can be used for good.”
“Hmm . . . interesting.” His brows furrowed for an instant, and then his face relaxed. “Let’s go with Buttercup and Westley. Can’t lose with that one, and it won’t give me nightmares.”
I laughed. I had a hard time believing scary movies bothered him. “If you’re that much of a wuss, then let’s watch . . .” I scanned the other movies on the shelf. “. . . Legends of the Fall.”
“Oh, no. That would be the worst nightmare of all.”
I gave him a questioning look as I slid the movie into the player. I used to have a crush on Tristan Ludlow, Brad Pitt’s character, but hated how he’d basically abandoned his loved ones. It wasn’t exactly nightmare material, though.
“I might dream of you with that other Tristan.” He pulled me onto the couch next to him and put his arms around me. “And that would be horrifying.”
He nestled his face into my hair at my neck. I smiled.
“I prefer this one.”
“This one prefers you, too,” he whispered.
He leaned back on the couch, pulling me with him. I felt so comfortable, so relaxed in his arms, I couldn’t understand now why I had panicked at the idea of being alone with him. Nothing felt more natural.
“Lexi,” Tristan murmured as he stirred on the couch. “Wake up, Lex.”
“Huh?” I sat up, a little disoriented. “Is the movie over?”
“I think it was over a while ago. We both fell asleep.”
The TV’s menu screen silently glowed bright blue.
“Oh.” I snuggled back against him. “Can we just stay here?”
“I think I better go,” he said quietly.
He stood and pulled me up, too. I held his hand as we walked to the door, and then he pulled me to him. Sparks flew through me again as he leaned over and kissed me. I wrapped my arms around his neck, dug my fingers into his hair, and pulled tightly as I kissed him back. Passion rose as his mouth traveled along my neck and jawline, and his hands slid down my back, pressing me against him when his lips returned to mine. A tiny sound might have escaped from me. I don’t know. His touch and scent and taste all together at once overwhelmed me. Losing control again . . .
He abruptly pulled back. Those flames sparked in his eyes again, glowing brighter than before. I stepped back, surprised (frightened).
“Yes, I better go,” he muttered. He was out the door before I could react.
I stood there breathless, not able to say anything because I didn’t know what would come out. Yes, go. No, stay!
“I’ll see you in the morning. We have more studying to do,” he called over his shoulder. I shut the door and slid to the floor, my legs weak, my insides still throbbing, and my heart racing. I stayed there while I listened to the motorcycle’s engine fade into the night.
A knock at the door startled me back to alertness. I stood up and peeked through the window.
“Owen?” I said with shock, pulling the door open. “It’s two in the morning. What are you doing here?”
“Hey, Alexis.” He seemed to be giving me a once-over. “I was in the neighborhood and wanted to make sure you were okay. I know you’re home alone, and I saw the lights on . . . ”
What the . . . ?
“Uh, I’m fine.” I stared at him with bewilderment.
“Yeah, I’m sure you are,” he mumbled as he turned to leave. “Sorry to bother you.”
He started down the walkway. Oh, no. Oh, no, she didn’t!
“Hey, Owen?” I called after him.
He stopped and turned. “Yeah?”
“Did Sophia put you up to this?”
He started walking again and called back, “Just doing my job, Alexis.”
Son of a witch! She had Owen checking up on me. And he’d conveniently shown up right after Tristan left, as if he’d been watching. A babysitter? Seriously?
But then I wondered if it had been Owen whom I heard outside last night, checking on me. That would be a good thing. He gave good vibes and Mom trusted him, so I should, too. Right?
* * *
Tristan showed up at the door at ten the next morning with coffee, croissants (how did he know chocolate was my favorite?), and his backpack in hand, and we spent the morning studying at the kitchen table. By one o’clock, he’d had enough. Throwing his pencil on the table, he strode over to the backdoor and gazed out the window.
“It’s a beautiful day for a ride,” he hinted. When I didn’t answer, he came over to my chair, dropped on his knees, clasped his hands together, and stuck his bottom lip out in a delicious pout. He lowered his voice. “Please?”
Like I could resist that. Or the offer.
“Why not? My brain’s fried, too.”
He grinned. “You’ll want to put on jeans and real shoes. No flip-flops for this ride.”
We cruised the streets of Cape Heron before heading for I-75. The interstate, where everyone drove eighty miles an hour. I squeezed my eyes shut and held onto Tristan tightly, my muscles tense as the wind rushed against my face and the sounds of cars and trucks seemed way too close. Exhaust fumes and the smell of hot rubber filled my nose. My body was welded to Tristan’s back by the time we left the highway only a couple exits later. Maybe that had been his plan, but I didn’t care at the moment. I breathed a sigh of relief that we survived.
At the slower speed, the ride was spectacular. The sun shone brightly in the clear, October sky, and the smell of oily warmth rose off the pavement. After a while, we crossed the causeway to Gasparilla Island. I rested my chin on Tristan’s shoulder as we cruised along the tree-lined boulevard, catching an occasional glimpse of the Gulf of Mexico on one side and the bay on the other, between the large houses. We rode through the quaint little town of Boca Grande, which reminded me a lot of Cape Heron. He stopped the bike in a parking lot at the end of the island, and we gazed over the sugary sand and blue-green water as pelicans dive-bombed for their dinner. Two dolphins jumped and twisted in the air, playing with each other.
“Nice, huh?” Tristan asked.
“Perfect,” I breathed. I was still close against him, my arms wrapped around his waist. He held my hands in front of him.
“Let’s take a walk and stretch our legs, then I’ll take you to this great little seafood place I found.”
As we rode down my street later, sadness grew within me, knowing our perfect day was coming to a close. Night had fallen, and the street was quiet except for the Harley’s engine. As we pulled in front of the cottage and I saw Mom’s car in the driveway and a light on inside, I was sadder still that our perfect weekend was over. We both took a deep breath and sighed heavily after he cut the engine, knowing the next few minutes, at least, wouldn’t be pleasant. I leaned against the backrest, not wanting to climb off yet.
“Do you know why she doesn’t like me?” Tristan asked.
“No, not really.”
He was quiet for a moment, then said, “I’m sure she’s worried about you because she loves you. And she has valid reasons for feeling the way she does, so you should probably listen to her.”
That sounded like a warning. Of what, I wasn’t sure, and I didn’t want to know. Not now.
I leaned my forehead against his back and whispered, “Please don’t.”
“Don’t what? Don’t be honest?” His voice was low and heavy.
I sighed. Why should we start now? But that’s not what I’d meant.
“I don’t know what will happen as soon as we walk in there. I’ve never seen her like this. But I had an amazing weekend with you, and that’s how I want to leave it. Let her be the one to ruin it. Not you. Please?”
He didn’t respond right away.
“Understood,” he finally said. I reached my arms around him, and he took my hands in each of his and gave them a squeeze. “Just one thing, though. Remember it’s your life, Alexis. Do what you need to do for you. Not for me, not for her. Okay?”
“Yeah, of course,” I answered simply. I’d already decided that Friday when I’d agreed to go to the beach with him, but guilt still filled my heart. So did anxiety. If she reacted as badly as she had before, I could be living on my own in a day or two. But I didn’t regret my decision. Not yet anyway.
“You had an amazing weekend with me, huh?” Tristan asked, his voice light and lovely again as we walked up the driveway hand-in-hand.
“Very amazing.” I smiled at him. “No matter what happens, it was worth it.”
“I agree.” He squeezed my hand, smiling back. “And thank you for telling me how you feel.”
I started to lead us to the side of the house, to my private entry, when the front door flew open. Mom stood in the doorframe, crossing her arms and glaring at us.
“Alexis,” she said curtly. “Tristan.”
“Hi, Sophia, how was your . . . uh . . . convention?” I asked, trying in vain to sound relaxed and nonchalant as we changed direction and walked up to the front porch.
She glared at Tristan, and I saw him shake his head out of the corner of my eye, answering her silent question.
“Not what I hoped it would be,” she answered coldly, still staring at Tristan. Her eyes softened just a bit, though, as if his keeping her secrets meant something to her.
We all stood there awkwardly in deafening silence.
“I think I better go . . .” Tristan broke it first. It was almost a question, though.
“That’s a good idea.” Mom leaned inside the door, picked something up, and held his backpack out to him.
He took the bag and squeezed my hand. “See you in class tomorrow.”
Mom closed the door and followed me to the kitchen table, where my books were still spread out, waiting for my return.
“Alexis, I need to talk to you.”
“I really need to study. Midterms tomorrow.”
“Please. Just listen for a minute.”
I turned, leaned against the table, and looked at her expectantly, waiting for the lecture or tirade or whatever was coming. But she surprised me.
“Listen . . . there are apparently things I need to work out with myself. There’s obviously nothing I can do about this.” She threw her hands in my direction, but I knew she meant “this” to mean Tristan and me together, as a couple. “Did you spend a lot of time with him this weekend?”
I hesitated before answering, but I couldn’t lie. “Yes.”
“And you obviously still like him?”
“Yes.”
“Anything more?”
“I don’t know. Maybe.” I sighed. “I think so.”
She pursed her lips together and stared at me for a long moment. “Just don’t rush into anything too serious, okay?”
I didn’t answer, and she blew out a heavy breath.
“Never mind. I shouldn’t have said that. You do what you feel is right, and I’ll just have to accept it. I knew it was coming. It was just a matter of when.”
She lost me. “Is this specifically about Tristan or about me getting serious with anyone in general?”
She pondered this question. “Both. But, in the end, it doesn’t matter. You’re going to do what you want, and so is he. I know everything will go the way it’s supposed to. It will be good.”
She said those last two sentences as if trying them on, feeling for their meaning, deciding if she truly believed them. Her face showed she didn’t, but wanted to, kind of doubtful and hopeful at the same time. I debated whether to force an explanation and decided to let it go, for now, anyway.
“Thanks, Mom.” I threw myself at her in a grateful hug—grateful for her blessing and for her return. She didn’t let go, and I knew she missed me, too. “There’s just one other thing.”
She stepped back and studied my face, her own expression leery.
“I feel really good with Tristan so—” I hesitated, bracing myself. “There might come a time when he needs to know about things . . . things I don’t know yet.”
“Alexis—”
“If he understands, maybe he won’t be mean or run.” My voice cracked on the last word.
Mom put her hands on my shoulders. “You do really like him, don’t you?”
I nodded. She sighed.
“Let’s just see how it goes, okay? Maybe we can talk about this again later . . . or maybe it won’t be necessary.” With a kiss to my forehead and a turn on her heel, she clearly stated the discussion was over. I didn’t know if I’d won just a little or not.
She went to bed, and I sat at the table to review my notes one more time. Just as I finished, there was a tap on the kitchen door. I nearly fell out of my seat at the seemingly loud sound in the dead silence. I sat there, frozen, trying to figure out what to do. My heart had jumped at the sound, and now it raced. Should I run? I glanced over at the knife block on the counter. Fight?
Another tap on the door’s window.
Would Phil really knock first?
“Alexis, it’s me.” Low, sexy voice muffled through the glass pane.
I laughed internally at myself and hurried over to open the door.
“What are you doing?” I whispered. “You scared the hell out of me.”
“Sorry.” He grinned, like he really wasn’t. “I had to make sure she hadn’t killed you or planned to take you away or anything.”
I smiled giddily. “No, actually, I think it’s all good.”
“Okay, good.” It came out as sort of a whoosh of relief.
“Is that it?” I asked when he just stood there.
“Well . . . I didn’t get to say a proper goodbye, and I couldn’t sleep without this.” He bent over and brushed his lips across mine. Then he smiled and winked. I stared at him, dazed. “Okay, better. I can sleep now. Good night.”
“’Night,” I murmured. He disappeared into the darkness.
Chapter 9
CHAPTER 9
Tristan sat on his motorcycle waiting for me when I came out of the cottage Monday morning. “I thought we could save gas and ride together today.”
I accepted the ride. And I accepted his hand when he took mine as we walked across campus and his offer to take me out to lunch. And I definitely accepted him as more than a study buddy or whatever it was that we had been. I discovered the feeling of being so completely aware of someone that you can’t help but touch their hand or arm or, in Tristan’s case, just lean over and plant a quick, good-luck kiss right on my lips outside my calculus classroom. Every touch was electrical, and I didn’t exactly get used to it, but I at least learned to expect it.
We did our own thing Tuesday until he showed up at my door right as the sun hung low. After sitting on the beach for the sunset again, we made dinner for Mom. She watched us carefully at first, but by the time Tristan left later that night, she’d given us all kinds of space.
We had planned a motorcycle ride on Wednesday, but I woke up late to a gray, wet day. So I worked on my book, and Tristan did whatever Tristan does, but he arrived again right before the gloom reached total darkness. The rainy evening was the perfect kind to spend snuggling with your sweetie at home, and for the first time ever, I had a sweetie to snuggle with. So, although we were on fall break, we lay on the loveseat in my room together and read some articles for our women’s studies class. We had a paper due Monday when classes resumed.
“Did you read this one yet?” Tristan asked as he carried his laptop into the kitchen so we could grab a snack.
I glanced at the screen. “The one about arranged marriages? Creepy, huh?”
“I find it . . . interesting.”
“What’s interesting?” Mom asked as she came in and went to the fridge.
“Arranged marriages,” I replied.
She stopped in mid-motion and gave Tristan a look, then muttered, “Yeah, interesting.”
He didn’t acknowledge her comment, which I couldn’t decide was dripping with sarcasm or something else. He eyed me instead as I poured oil and popcorn in a pot. “So what are your thoughts on the topic?”
“Hmm . . . I don’t know. Personally, I wouldn’t want to be told whom I was going to spend the rest of my life with. I think that should be left to fate. And love.”
“Yeah, that thing called love,” Tristan mused as he moved out of Mom’s way. He leaned against the counter next to me while she grabbed makings for tea. “But maybe the marriage is their fate. It was meant to be, but it was planned by people, too.”
I thought about that idea and shrugged. “Yeah, I guess you could look at it that way. I still don’t know that I’d like it, though. It seems strange to grow up knowing you have no options.”
“What if it’s a family obligation, like your family was depending on it?” Mom piped in.
“I don’t know,” I admitted. “I guess it would be hard to turn your back on that.”
“That’s usually the reason for those arrangements,” she said. “Often the family’s survival is at risk, and the arrangement holds the key to their continued existence . . . or, at least, their way of life.”
I nodded. “The article debates that point. I just don’t understand how they work, though. I mean, they’re matched together when they’re very young, especially the girls. What if he’s a horrible person or she’s a bitch? What if the man doesn’t want to be with her anymore, when she’s grown up and he sees what she’s really like? Or he turns out to be a wife beater?”
“What if they’re not? What if they’re perfect for each other . . . meant to be together?” Tristan challenged.
“That would be pure luck,” I scoffed.
“Or fate,” he added, “you know, destiny.”
I chuckled with skepticism. “Yeah, I guess you could call it that. But do you believe in destiny?”
“Actually, I do.” He pierced me with an intense gaze when I looked up at him. “So, what if they were given the chance to get to know each other, fell passionately in love, and then found out the whole thing had been arranged?”
I pulled my eyes from his and focused on the popping corn while considering this. “Well, I guess that would be their destiny. If they love each other all on their own, then I guess it wouldn’t make a difference if it was arranged or not, right? But they’d both have to be in the dark, I think. After all, if one knew about the arrangement and didn’t tell the other . . . that’s not a relationship built on trust.”
“Hmm,” Tristan murmured. “Good point.”
“On the other hand,” I continued, “whether people are involved in the arrangement or not, if they’re really meant for each other, if they’re true soul mates, then it was planned all along . . . by God or the Universe or whatever.”
Mom’s head tilted as I said this, although she seemed to be intently focused on making her tea.
“So . . . if you believe in true love and you were truly soul mates, then it wouldn’t matter,” Tristan summarized and added with doubt in his tone, “but you have to believe in the idea of soul mates first.”
“And you don’t?” I peered at him.
“I don’t know. I didn’t used to,” he said quietly, his gaze focused on the floor. He glanced sideways at me. “What about you?”
He had essentially voiced exactly what I was thinking. I wanted to believe but never could. Until . . .  I felt another click of my heart settling.
“I don’t know, either,” I answered instead. “I’d like to believe in it. The thought of two souls being made for each other and then actually finding each other in this big world . . . it’s a nice idea.” Contrary to my feelings, I added, “Just seems a little unrealistic, though.”
He studied my face for a minute and then grinned. “And I thought all girls were sappy romantics, waiting for their soul mate.”
“Sappy romantics, huh? Have you met Sophia?” I laughed. Mom grabbed the hand towel off the counter and snapped it at my thigh.
“I think I’ll get back to my reading,” she said before ducking out of the kitchen.
I dumped the popcorn into a bowl, Tristan grabbed our drinks, and we headed back to my room, returning to our spots on the loveseat to read about women’s roles in different cultures.
“So,” I said when we were done, “based on what we read, with all these different cultures and the woman’s role in them, which one would you most like to live in? As a man, I mean.”
Tristan lifted an eyebrow as he grabbed a handful of popcorn. “Hmm . . . good question. Are you, perhaps, trying to find out what kind of woman I like?”
I grinned. “You got me.”
“I see.” He tossed several kernels in his mouth, and chewed while making me wait for an answer. “Well, I think I might quite enjoy the Amazon culture. Big, strong, independent women . . . I could handle being a boy toy.”
“Hmph. I guess I don’t match up then,” I said. “I’m not big or strong. And I definitely don’t need a boy toy!”
Tristan laughed. “Yeah, you are small, but you’re also independent. And I’m pretty sure Sophia could take me on anytime, so if you’re anything like her . . .”
If he only knew! Then again, if he were related to Lenny, he probably did know.
I set the popcorn bowl on the floor and cuddled against his side. He wrapped an arm around my shoulders. “Sure you don’t want your big Amazon woman?”
“Sure you don’t need a boy toy?”
“I wouldn’t know what to do with him,” I said.
“Mmm . . . I could show you.” He nestled his face in my hair and kissed my ear. I giggled and pulled away, lifting my shoulder as a barrier. “Ah, seems I found a ticklish spot.”
“I think that could make me crazy,” I admitted, rubbing the goose bumps on my arm.
“Nice.” He squeezed me. “Three points for me.”
I tilted my head to see his face. “Points? For what?”
“I get a point for learning something new about you, a point because you actually told me, and a bonus because it makes you crazy in a way that I like.” He grinned proudly.
He’s giving himself points? It took less than a minute for me to realize he wasn’t making a game out of us. The points—whether they were real or he just now made them up—marked the accomplishment of learning something about me. I shifted my position. He had to drop his arm, but I wanted to look at him. He turned, too, so we both sat sideways on the loveseat, facing each other.
“So what makes you crazy?” I asked.
“Lots of things.” His eyebrows waggled, and he chuckled. But then he became serious, looking at me intensely. “What makes me craziest is not knowing what you’re thinking or feeling, and even more than that, why you don’t tell me.”
I gazed back into those beautiful hazel eyes, the gold sparkling but not as bright as usual. It made me sad.
“Do I get points for that?” I asked, trying to reroute the conversation and keep it light. “You just told me something about you.”
“Doesn’t count. I’ve told you that before.” He smiled, but it seemed a little off.
“So what’s the score?” I desperately tried to prolong the superficial talk, avoiding the dive he apparently wanted to take into my head and heart.
“Don’t worry. You’re winning.”
“Ha! Then you’re a terrible scorekeeper.”
“I’ll admit to that when it comes to you, but why do you say so?”
I thought about it for a minute. It seemed we both felt that we knew very little about each other. So how can we have such a strong connection like we do? It felt like more than lust but . . . was it?
“Let me ask you a question,” I finally said. “If you had to introduce me to someone, how would you do it?”
“What do you mean?”
“I mean, what would you say, exactly?”
“This is my sexy Lexi . . . ?” He grinned.
I rolled my eyes.
“Ma lykita? Is that better?”
“I don’t even know what it means.”
“Right.”
“And?”
He shook his head, the smile still on his lips. “Nope. My secret.”
I groaned. “Fine. Then be serious. I’m going somewhere with this, and I promise you’ll get something out of it, too.”
“Okay . . . I’d say, ‘This is Alexis, my girlfriend.’ Is that what you mean?”
“Yeah,” I mumbled. I got hung up for a moment on the word “girlfriend.” I’d never been anyone’s girlfriend. Isn’t that what I want? I smiled. “Okay, now what if you were telling someone about me? What would you say?”
“Ah, that would be easy.” He ran his hand through my hair and brushed it along the side of my face. “Long, coppery hair that shines like a penny in the sun; soft, smooth skin that feels like silk; big, beautiful, brown eyes that pull you into their gaze; and a hot little body that I’d like to get to know.”
His eyes glinted with mischief as he glanced at my bed. I picked up a piece of popcorn and tossed it at him. He caught it with his mouth.
“Really?” I said. “If someone asked you what I was like, that’s what you would say?”
He swallowed. “Oh, no. Sorry. That’s what I think every day about you. But I might have to kill anyone else who thought about you like that.”
I shook my head. “If you won’t take me seriously, I won’t tell you what I was thinking.”
“Okay, I’m sorry. I mean it.” He took a moment to think. “I would tell them that you’re a beautiful, smart, kind, independent young woman with a good sense of humor and a laugh that makes my heart soft; who likes to go to the beach, cook, read, and watch vampire movies, but is self-protective.” He leaned forward and dropped his voice. “And I wouldn’t say this to anyone else, but I think there is a reason for that shell you have around you, that you have experienced betrayal and have a difficult time trusting people.”
Bam! Hit the nail on the head! So, although I was good at hiding my feelings and thoughts, I was, at the same time, transparent. I looked away from him, sure he could see everything in my eyes. I stared down at the cushion instead, studying the lines and wrinkles in the brown leather.
That last statement sounded as though it made him sad or worried . . . like he truly cared.
My heart balanced on the edge of a knife, teetering one way and then the other. Which was better? Not sharing the real, whole me with him and enjoying this charade of a relationship, which would eventually end anyway because it was based on lies—his, mine, and Sophia’s? Or giving my whole self to him and taking the chance he’d run from the freak show? And what if he did stay? Is that what I really wanted?
“Ah, I think I’m on to something,” he said, again sounding sad. “You’ve been hurt. And I will accept that as part of you.”
I blinked against the sting in my eyes and whispered, “You don’t have to.”
He took my hands in his. “But I want to, Alexis. I want to be with you, shell and all. I hope one day I’ll be the chink that cracks your shell and I’ll know all of you. I won’t push you, though. It’s up to you. But it pains me to think of someone else getting in there.”
“And if you don’t like what’s in here?” Ice edged my tone.
“Is that what you’re afraid of? That I won’t like you?”
I didn’t answer, didn’t even acknowledge the question.
“Ah, I see.” He leaned his head down, his lips against my ear, and whispered, “It’s a little too late for that.”
I finally looked up at him, and he shrugged.
“I already know the kind of person you are, and that’s all that matters to me. I have my own issues, and yours can’t be any worse. Trust me. Unless . . .” He pulled back and lifted an eyebrow. “You’re not really a guy in there, are you?”
I smiled. “Not the last time I checked.”
“Because that would cross my line. Not that there’d be anything wrong with it, but it’s not my thing. Anything else . . .” He shrugged again. “I can handle.”
He must have seen the doubt in my eyes.
“The last thing I want to do is hurt you, Lex. Please trust me.”
His eyes delved into mine, searching deep for something buried under layers of betrayal and pain. As I stared back, I knew I didn’t want to push him away. But what he asked for . . . I didn’t know if I had it to give.
“The problem with trust,” I said slowly, deliberately, “is that you don’t know that it’s broken until it is, when it’s too late.”
“But you can’t know that you can trust me until you try,” he countered.
“Everyone I’ve ever trusted has betrayed me in a very big way, except Sophia.”
“And when will you realize that I’m not everyone else?”
I already knew, at least to some extent. But just because he was different than most people didn’t mean he could accept my differences.
I shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess I need more proof?”
“Ah. Okay. So, my goal will be to build your trust in me, one little piece at a time.” He lifted my chin with his thumb so we were looking eye to eye again. “Will you let me do that?”
As I gazed into his eyes, my heart stopped teetering and tumbled over. I hadn’t realized it before, but I knew now. He’d already cracked my shell, and eventually he’d make the whole thing crumble, leaving every bit of me exposed and naked for his scrutiny. And I would let him and just have to deal with the consequences. I wanted to take the risk that came with trusting him, even knowing if he turned out to be like all the others, it would be the worst pain I’d ever experienced. He’d already settled too deeply into my heart. He’d snapped himself into place with each of those little clicks I’d felt over the past two months.
It went against everything I knew was for my own good, but I could feel a tugging deep down that I needed to do this. That it was right. We needed to dispose of the lies. If he was willing to do one piece at a time, I could handle that.
“Baby steps?” I whispered.
“Baby steps,” he agreed.
I took a deep breath and let it out slowly. “So I still owe you.”
“You just gave me more than I thought I would get in months.”
Months? Am I really that bad?
I shook my head. “No, there are rewards I promised, and I’ll deliver. Besides I don’t want you to think I was fishing for compliments. I was just trying to understand exactly what you know about me—or what you think you know about me, anyway. So, I’m going to tell you now what I know about you.”
“As if you’re telling someone about me?”
“Yep. So . . . I would say you are a sweet, funny, considerate, fun, intelligent, multilingual gentleman who is good at math and likes to cook, ride motorcycles, and watch sunsets on the beach⁠—”
“Sounds like a personal ad.” He chuckled. “Except for the math part. That’s not very sexy.”
I smiled—even that part was sexy about him—and held up my hand. “Wait, I’m not done. I know you, too, have a difficult past that you won’t talk about. But, unfortunately, that’s about all I know about you. And that’s why you’re winning.”
He opened his mouth to protest, but I held my hand over it.
“But I do know other things,” I continued. “Things I wouldn’t tell anyone else . . . things like how my heart dances when you look at me a certain way or, God forbid, wink . . . or how it feels like an exciting current flows under my skin when you touch me anywhere—” I picked up our clasped hands and brushed the inside of my other wrist with his fingers and said, “But especially here.” I brought his hand to my neck. “And here. And—” I slid the tips of his fingers along my lower lip. “Here.” I inhaled a slow breath. “Now, for all the bonus points you get for learning what I like, I think you just racked up another fifty or so.”
He held the back of my hand to his lips as he considered this, the gold flecks shimmering in his eyes. “You’re right. I owe you. Ask me anything, and I will tell you.”
A hundred-and-one questions flew through my mind. The most guarded answers, I was sure, had to do with the conversation between him and my mom, what he knew, how he knew, who he really was. Answering those honestly would have been the ones that would truly gain my trust. But those weren’t baby steps, and if I expected baby steps, I would give them, too.
“What do you do? I mean, when you’re not with me or at school. What’s your job?”
“Well, it’s not really a job, but it’s business. I do some, uh . . . consulting . . . and use that money to play the stock market. I’ve built up a decent portfolio, which allows me to buy toys.” He grinned. “And I do some computer programming for a couple of software companies. It’s all stuff I do at home, mostly. And I indulge in Aikido.”
“Eye what?”
“Aikido. It’s a form of martial arts. I use it to practice self-control.”
“Really?” I thought of the phone call I’d overheard and the situation in the park. “You have control issues? Never would have thought . . .”
“Haha,” he replied with matching sarcasm. Then he frowned. “Actually, I had quite a bit of control with that asshole. I was angry, but I was fully aware of what I was doing. Otherwise, I might have killed the lowlife.”
A chill crossed my shoulders at his tone, and I fought back the shiver. I knew he wouldn’t have—couldn’t have—killed the creep . . . but, with his muscular build, he was fully capable of doing some serious damage.
“Your Aikido must be working, then. That’s the only time I’ve seen you come close to being anything other than calm and cool.”
“Hmm. Ironic. Because when I’m around you is when I need more control than ever . . . I really want to lose it with you.” The tone was serious, but a smile played on his lips. I didn’t know what to make of it. Then I remembered the fire in his eyes and the controlled breathing every time we kissed. I had a hint of understanding.
“But if it’s practicing self-control, how is that an indulgence?”
“Because I spar, and that’s fun.” He grinned.
“Spar, as in fighting?” I asked, my stomach clenching.
“You want to come watch sometime?”
“Ugh. No, thanks, I’ll pass on that one.” An idea occurred to me, though. “Do you think you could teach me? I know some self-defense, but I’d like to know more.”
“I think that’s an excellent idea. So . . .” He lowered his voice to its most irresistible. “Do I get to ask a question?”
I narrowed my eyes, wanting to tease him about how much I’d given him tonight. But he said baby steps, and I had to trust that’s what he had in mind. I nodded.
“What do you do besides college? I know you don’t work at the store all that often. So either you’re mooching off Sophia, or you’re doing something else.”
Ugh. Was this a baby step? Of all the things he could have asked, this was probably the safest—not about my past, my mom, or any big secrets—but it made me mentally squirm. It was one thing for him to know I wanted to be an author. It was a whole different thing to admit I was actually doing it when it would likely be an epic failure. But I couldn’t deny him an answer, and I couldn’t lie, because that would defeat the purpose.
“Actually, both,” I finally admitted. “I’m writing a novel, and Sophia has this big idea it’ll get published. So she’s paying my way so I can write and still go to college.”
“Wow. A novel, huh? That’s impressive.”
“Yeah, well, don’t get too impressed. It’s not even done yet.”
“Can I read it?” he asked with unusual eagerness.
I thought of the childhood game, Mother May I, and felt like he asked to take one giant leap forward when he was only allowed baby steps. If I gave him my writing, I may as well give him my whole soul. I didn’t let anyone read most of my writing, not even my mom. Her assertion of my talent was based on essays and short stories I’d written for school. Sharing my book with anyone would be a huge leap that I knew I’d have to take eventually, but not yet.
“Hmm . . . baby steps, okay?” I answered.
“Okay,” he agreed.
Baby Steps was the game we played every day for weeks. He got a question, and I got a question. They often led to more questions, but they were generally superficial topics. We discovered that we had similar tastes in music—a preference for alternative and classic rock, but could enjoy anything except rap, and country was just bearable. I learned he wanted to be an engineer or an architect. He’d lived in many places throughout Europe, as well as several cities in the U.S., had spent time in Japan to study Aikido, and had traveled to every continent except Antarctica.
He learned I’d never been out of the United States but had a passport because Sophia thought it practical and that I took four years of Spanish in high school and could say maybe five full sentences and count to one hundred. I told him I could name every Edgar Allan Poe story and recite by heart nine Emily Dickinson poems. I even admitted that I had tried my own hand at poetry.
I learned he didn’t like Halloween, saying it wasn’t right that little kids wanted to be witches, vampires, and other monsters. I admitted I’d always been a witch or a vampire, but always a good one—as a vampire, I carried around a cup of donor “blood.” He guessed correctly it was Mom’s idea. She preferred fairies, princesses, and humorous costumes to the gory and scary ones. He asked Mom if my interest in monsters and fantastical creatures was healthy. She just laughed. I talked him into taking me to a couple haunted houses, and he growled fiercely at the monster-actors, making them jump and shriek. I laughed so hard I almost peed my pants. He admitted it was the most fun he’d had on Halloween.
By Thanksgiving, we spent nearly all of our free time together, and I experienced for the first time in years what it was like to have a close friend who wasn’t my mother. Except our relationship was even better than friends because I got to kiss him, too, and every time was more amazing than the last.
During that time, we learned all of the top-layer stuff that barely scratched the surfaces of who we were and why . . . the stuff that made us real. Little hints and nuggets could be gleaned from these subjects, but they didn’t touch the deep, inner workings of our hearts or souls and definitely had nothing to do with the secrets we kept and pain we hid. I knew, though, it was only a matter of time before those things came out.
And when they did . . . well, it certainly didn’t happen in a way I could have ever expected.
Chapter 10
CHAPTER 10
“Owen and I could have done that,” Tristan said as Mom and I climbed stepladders in the bookstore’s expansive front window, a string of Christmas lights stretched between us.
With tomorrow being Thanksgiving, Tristan and I had spent today helping Mom and Owen prepare for the holiday rush. Mom didn’t believe in selling Christmas before Halloween or even Thanksgiving, so here we were, nine o’clock at night, still decorating. Nearly finished, Mom had just sent Owen home, so not two minutes ago, we had two perfectly able—and perfectly tall—men to hang the lights.
“Alexis and I are quite capable of doing this,” Mom said pointedly. “In fact, you can go home, too.”
“Nah, I’ll stay. Although, we could be done a lot faster if you didn’t do it the hard way,” he said as he picked up empty boxes that had held the decorations.
Mom mumbled something under her breath, but all I caught was “normal” and “mainstream.” Tristan chuckled as if he heard her clearly, though he was at least twenty feet farther away from her than I was. I opened my mouth to ask what that was all about when a pair of headlights racing down the street distracted me.
The shops on Fifth Street closed hours ago. Lights of restaurants and bars shone from farther down, but our block remained deserted, except for this lone car. So I didn’t understand when the headlights suddenly swerved, arcing right into the store’s window. Then I realized the car barreled straight for us.
“Mom!” I shrieked without thinking.
The car continued racing right at us, way too fast to stop in time.
“Alexis! Jump!” Mom yelled.
Before we even had a chance to jump, though, we both flew off the ladders and into Tristan’s arms. I stared wide-eyed like a deer caught in headlights, my mind registering several things at once. When the car was about twenty yards away, still going way too fast, a light flashed on something directly to the right of it—the driver’s door, swinging open—and a streak of white flew behind it and disappeared. Owen, who had left through the back door moments ago, stood in the middle of the street, and he thrust his hands toward the car as if willing it to stop. The driver must have finally slammed on the brakes—the tires squealed as it slowed just before crashing into the store.
And then it hit. Sliding into the window. Glass imploding.
Mom and I tucked our faces into Tristan’s shoulders, and he bent over to shield us. Glass chinked and shattered as it rained to the floor around us.
When silence fell, I lifted my face and immediately smelled the night air, mixed with lingering exhaust fumes. The orange car sat quietly a couple of feet inside the shop, right where Mom and I had been only seconds earlier. The ladders lay on their sides, part of one under the car, along with the Christmas tree and fake presents we’d just set up.
“That was . . . intense,” Tristan muttered as he straightened up. “You two okay?”
Mom jerked her head, not to answer but to shake her hair out. A couple of small pieces of glass hit the floor. “I’m fine.”
She twisted in Tristan’s arm, and he let her go. I noticed pink lines on her arms—minor scratches already healed. She healed much faster than I did. I hoped Tristan didn’t catch that.
“Uh, yeah, I think I am,” I breathed. “Are you?”
I started to look up at him, to make sure he wasn’t cut anywhere, when Mom sucked her breath, distracting me.
“Alexis, don’t move,” she instructed, her words slow and deliberate, as she moved to my right between the car and me. Tristan cupped his hand against the side of my face and tilted it up toward his before I could see what had her enraptured. He pulled me tighter into him.
“Just look at me,” he said quietly.
“What’s going on?” I whispered. Tristan held my eyes with his, and I could tell by his expression it wasn’t good.
I immediately thought of the driver and the car door swinging open just before impact. Did he fly out of the car? Is he under the car? My stomach lurched at the thought.
“It’s all right. It’s not in an artery or anything,” Mom said, and then a sharp pain tore through my thigh.
“Ouch! Son of a witch!” I screamed, trying to twist myself free, but not able to in Tristan’s tight clutch.
I looked over my shoulder, and Mom held a shard of glass at least five inches long and two inches wide, half of it covered in blood. My blood.
In a strange, delayed reaction, the pain suddenly screamed up and down my leg. Then more stabs and throbs in my arms and one on my head. A tickling sensation ran down the back of my head, and I lifted my hand to it. When I pulled it away, blood coated the tips of my fingers. I glanced up at Tristan while squeezing my hand into a fist to hide the blood. I could tell he’d already seen it, though. This is so not good.
“Police,” he said.
“Huh?”
“Police, Alexis, you need to get out of here,” Mom said.
Their meaning finally registered when I heard the sirens a few seconds later, still several blocks away. Oh, crap! Witnesses! I felt the cuts on my arms already starting to heal.
“Everyone okay?” Owen called from outside. Not Owen, too!
“We’re fine, Owen. Check on the driver and anyone else in the car,” Mom called back. She lowered her voice. “Tristan, can you take care of Alexis?”
“Yes, I’ll take her home.”
“Sophia!”
She ignored me. “Are you sure, Tristan? There’s a lot of blood⁠—”
“I’m fine, Sophia. I love her. She’ll be safe with me.”
I heard the confidence in his voice, but hardly paid attention to the meaning of the words. Except for that one phrase. He loves me? He’d never said that before. While I rolled that over in my mind, wondering why he felt the need to say it now, they stared at each other for what seemed like several minutes, but it had to have been only a second or two. Then Mom nodded.
“Get her home, then,” she said. I panicked.
“Sophia, please, no!” I begged her as Tristan bent down to cradle me in his arms.
What the hell is she thinking? How could she let me go with him? She knew this was my biggest issue.
“I have to stay here and take care of this mess. Tristan will take care of you. Don’t worry. He’ll be fine with it all.”
I didn’t have a chance to argue. She already hopped onto the car’s hood to pass through the window and help Owen with the driver, and Tristan already strode toward the back of the store, carrying me like a small child. There was no real argument, anyway. Mom obviously had to stay, and I couldn’t exactly walk home. Not yet, anyway, and there was no time to wait—the sirens wailed a block or two away now.
My head and leg throbbed with each step Tristan took. I bit my lip, fighting the tears while trying to keep a straight face as we exited through the back door. I knew from previous experience to pretend like nothing was as bad as it appeared, so it wouldn’t seem quite so bizarre when it healed freakishly fast.
Tristan set me down on my feet at the bike, and my right leg nearly gave out, forcing me to shift all my weight. He pulled off his T-shirt and tore a sleeve off, bunching it up and giving it to me. “For your head.”
I held the wadded cloth against the cut on my head while he carefully tied the rest of the shirt around my lower thigh, padding as much as he could against the cut on the outside of my thigh. I couldn’t help the winces of pain.
“Are you okay to ride?”
“Yeah,” I mumbled, “it’s not far.”
I couldn’t even enjoy the fact that I leaned against his bare back, my arms around his bare waist, as panic and pain fought with each other on the short ride home. The smaller cuts on my arms were already closing. The bigger gash in my thigh hurt like hell, which meant it would take longer—the shard had cut through deeply. I squeezed my eyes shut to keep the tears at bay and tried to focus on a plan. The four-block ride wasn’t long enough, though. Too soon, Tristan lifted me off the bike and carried me inside.
“Um . . .” My voice came out in a rough whisper. “Bathroom.”
He carefully set me down on the tub’s edge in the hall bathroom, and I rearranged his sleeve to find a clean section and pressed it against my head. He opened the cabinet under the sink and while his back was to me, I pulled the sleeve off my head again and quickly inspected it. It came away clean. I sighed. Why do I have to be such a freak?
“Should we use these towels?” he asked, holding up Mom’s pretty guest towels. Why we had them, I didn’t know—we never had guests. But I saw the opportunity and seized it.
“Get the old ones in the kitchen, in the broom closet. Sophia’ll kill me if I ruined her good ones.”
As soon as he was in the hallway, I lunged forward to shut the bathroom door, quickly locking it before he realized what I’d done. I grabbed an everyday towel from the bottom of the stack and crawled to the bathtub. Tristan pounded on the door.
“Alexis! What are you doing?”
“Um . . . going to the bathroom?” I hated that it sounded like a question.
He didn’t respond at first. I turned the tub faucet on just enough to dampen the towel and started cleaning my arms to see the damage. Almost all the cuts were completely gone, no evidence at all they ever existed. A few that must have been deeper were just red jags. They’d disappear, too, within ten minutes or so.
“Can I come in now?” Tristan called through the door.
“You know what . . . I’m fine,” I said, trying hard to make my voice sound normal. “You can go now. I can take care of this. It’s really not that bad.”
Guilt stabbed at me. I hated lying to him. I didn’t want to hide things anymore, even this. I had an urge to let him watch, to see the healing process with his own eyes. He must have heard the lie in my voice.
“You are not fine. Let me in!” He pounded on the door again, rattling the wood in its jamb.
Damn it. I was precisely at the moment I’d been dreading and desiring at the same time. I wanted Tristan to know everything about me, but I was terrified of his reaction—more scared of it than of anything that had already happened tonight. Will he call me a freak, too? Will he leave me? The tears finally welled in my eyes, not only from the physical pain, but also from knowing the emotional pain that would cut even deeper.
Ignoring his pleas, I took the wrap off my thigh, needing to see how bad the wound was before I decided what to do. The pain screamed as I twisted my body and bent my leg at an odd angle to see. Ugh. A wave of nausea rolled over me.
The shard must have gone in at an angle, because the gash was at least three inches long and jagged. I dabbed it with Tristan’s shirt, exposing dark red meat. If I looked too closely, I might see bone, too, but blood flooded back to the surface, hiding the worst.
“Alexis, I’ll break this door down if you don’t let me in now.”
I sighed. No question he could do it, surely on his first try, even. I couldn’t fight the tears any longer, and they rolled down my cheek, one by one. I crawled over to the door, holding his blood-soaked shirt back against my thigh.
“Tristan?” I said through the door, barely loud enough to be heard without straining. I heard him slide down the wall to my level.
“What? Are you okay?”
“Um . . . no . . . I don’t . . . think so,” I admitted, breathing through the pain.
“Please let me in.” Desperate concern filled his voice, and another pang of guilt stabbed at me. But I couldn’t let him. Yet.
“I will, but I need to know something first.”
“Anything. I’ll tell you anything. Just let me help you.”
I took a deep breath and exhaled slowly.
“Do you really love me?” I finally asked.
Silence for a moment, and then, “What?”
I pressed my cheek against the door. It felt comfortingly cool against my warm skin.
“You told Sophia you love me. Do you really?” My words came out so quietly, I was surprised he even heard them.
“Beyond all reasoning, yes,” he said almost as quietly, and I could hear in his voice he really meant it.
I understood what he implied. How could we possibly feel love so soon? We’d met barely more than three months ago, and although I cared for him deeply and treasured our friendship, I couldn’t be sure what I felt was love. Until now, I’d only known love between a mother and a daughter. When I was little, Mom had a boyfriend who I loved and I thought he loved me, but then he disappeared out of our lives forever. I’d been painfully mistaken then. I couldn’t make the same mistake now.
“Don’t worry,” Tristan said, “I don’t expect you to say it back. I know it’s too soon.”
He was too good to me.
I gathered all the courage I possessed and pushed back the thought that I may regret what I was about to do. If he reacted like everyone else, it would be the worst pain ever. I wiped away my tears, reached up and unlocked the door, cracking it open. He sat on the floor right in front of the door. “Close your eyes, please.”
“What? What’s wrong with you?” He obediently closed his eyes, though. I opened the door, crawled into his lap and kissed him, hoping and praying it wasn’t the last one ever.
“I needed that first,” I whispered. I watched him as he opened his eyes. “Because things are about to get weird.”
“What’s going on?” he asked, his beautiful hazel eyes filled with concern.
I reluctantly held my arms straight out in front of him. He studied them, running his fingers over the last of the pink marks. I watched his face with trepidation and braced myself for the worst.
“They’re perfect,” he said matter-of-factly. He tilted my head, gently separating my hair to examine the head wound. “Nothing. It’s gone. So what’s wrong?”
I narrowed my eyes at him, suspicious at his reaction or, rather, non-reaction. “You don’t see anything wrong?”
He smiled slightly. “No. They’re all healed. I think that’s a good thing.”
I held my breath, watching him and waiting . . . and waiting . . . and still no reaction. I know he’s not stupid. He’d seen the blood on my hand when I touched my head at the store. He knew there had been some kind of wound there not ten minutes ago. And now nothing. He said so himself.
“Ah, must be your leg.” His hand moved toward my thigh. I instinctively shifted away, tumbling off his lap and onto the bathroom floor. “Lexi, I won’t hurt you.”
“That’s not the problem!”
“Then what is?” Both concern and bemusement filled his face.
“Tristan . . . you saw how much my head was bleeding.”
He shrugged. “Head wounds bleed a lot. It must not have been bad, and it’s gone now.”
“Exactly! It’s gone. So are the cuts on my arms. Don’t you find that, I don’t know, a little weird?”
“Not at all. Should I?”
“Uh, yeah, you should. It’s not normal. I’m a freak!”
He laughed, and I glared at him. Here it comes. He abruptly stopped and slid his arms around me. “What ever gave you the idea I thought you were normal?”
“Are you mocking me?” I pulled away and stared into his eyes. The gold sparkled beautifully. He wasn’t freaked out. He wasn’t being mean. He wasn’t counting the seconds to get out of here and never return. He was simply concerned.
“You’re really making a big deal out of nothing. I don’t care that you heal fast. Remember what I told you? I can handle anything. You could grow a second head, and I would love it.”
I continued glaring at him.
“Okay, a second head may be a little weird,” he admitted. “But healing yourself, well, that’s not a deal breaker for me. Okay?”
I stared at him, not able to think of a single thing to say. He’s not running. He’s not laughing. What’s wrong with him?
“Now, please let me look.”
He turned me so he could better see the leg injury and pulled my hand with the now red, wadded T-shirt away. I was too dumbfounded to fight him off anymore. Besides, I knew this one was not healing so fast . . . if at all. It actually scared me now. The pain continued to shoot up to my hip and down to my ankle, and the gash still hadn’t stopped bleeding. This was the worst injury I’d ever had, and Mom and I didn’t know the extent of my body’s ability to heal. This could be its first real test. If it didn’t heal on its own, Mom had a professional grade first-aid kit with needle and thread. But Mom wasn’t here.
“Have you taken a good look at me since that car came through the window?” Tristan asked as he studied the injury.
Huh? Is he trying to distract me? That would be a good way to do it. I was taking a good look at him right now, actually—he still had no shirt on. His body was perfect. He glanced up at me when I didn’t answer, and his face was perfect, as usual, too.
“Of course. You’re beautiful, as always,” I mumbled.
“I prefer sexy.” He gave me a cocky grin. “And look, ma, no cuts or no blood.”
My brow furrowed as I recalled the past ten or fifteen minutes, since the accident. Yeah . . . no cuts or blood on him. And he had shielded Mom and me. He should have been the worst off.
“How come you’re not hurt?” I gasped as he poked at the raw flesh. “Ouch!”
“Sorry. This is serious.”
“And you know because . . . ?” I asked, momentarily forgetting my first question.
“Because I have medical training. But it doesn’t take a doctor to see that the glass severed tendons and muscles. There’s so much blood still.” He grabbed the towel I’d been using and soaked it under the tub’s faucet. “I can’t even see if it’s healing on its own.”
He dabbed at the wound, and I winced.
“So how come you’re not hurt?” I asked again through clenched teeth, now trying to distract myself. “That’s hardly fair. Ow!”
He’d gone in deeper.
“Here.” He put my hand on his leg. “Squeeze as hard as you need to, if it helps.”
I squeezed. Hard.
“I heal, too,” he said, “and much faster than you.”
Chapter 11
CHAPTER 11
“What?”
Tristan definitely had me distracted now.
“Any surface cuts from the flying glass would’ve healed before they even bled,” he said. “It’d take a shard like what did this to even pierce my skin. Or a dart . . .” He glanced at me with a lopsided smile, then went back to work.
I ignored the dart comment as my breaths became shallow. I didn’t know if it was from the pain or a reaction to what he said.
“You . . . heal?” The towel jabbed deep, hitting a raw nerve and making me jump. “Holy crap, ouch!”
“This isn’t working,” he said with a sigh. He glanced down at my hand on his leg. My fingernails dug into his thigh.
“Sorry,” I whispered, loosening my grip.
“You’re not hurting me, but you are hurting, and I can’t bear it.” I could see my pain reflected in his eyes. He laid the wet towel over the wound, apparently giving up. “Yes, I heal, among other things. And you, ma lykita, are not. At least, not quickly enough.”
I groaned. “Call Sophia. She can sew it . . . I think.”
He shook his head. “There’s no way she’s done already. The police can’t know you were there and injured, or they’ll make you go to the hospital. And that’s out of the question.”
I frowned. “Right. So what do we do?”
He stared at my leg for a long moment, seeming to think about our options. Then he placed one of his knees on each side of my legs and leaned over, placing a hand on the floor on each side of me so he knelt on all fours, his face very close to mine.
“Do you trust me?” he asked.
His delicious breath wafted over me when he spoke. He gazed intensely into my eyes. My mind started to fog.
“I . . . think so,” I whispered.
“You think?” He rocked back onto his heels and eyed me. I wished I could take my words back, because I much preferred him hovering over me shirtless than the look he gave me now.
“Well . . . you just . . . you can . . . you heal,” I stammered.
“So that is a deal breaker for you?”
“No, of course not,” I blurted. “It’s not that you can heal, but you didn’t tell me.”
“And you’ve been so forthcoming?” He raised an eyebrow. I pressed my lips together, unable to deny the accusation. “We’ve both known this about each other.”
“I know,” I admitted. “It’s just, well, it seems you’ve known all my secrets. At least the two biggest ones. You’re not surprised at all by my ability to heal. And you know Sophia is really my mom.”
There. That’s out now. He narrowed his eyes for a second, probably wondering how I knew that, but then nodded. “You’re right. But a secret is a secret. A lie is a lie. You didn’t tell me either.”
I lay back on the floor with a groan and stared at the ceiling, tears stinging my eyes again. He’s right. Now what? His face came into my vision as he leaned over me again. He smiled, and the gold sparkled in his eyes.
“I don’t care, though,” he whispered. “I’ve known Sophia for a long time, and I know these things about you, and I don’t care. Even the secrets and the lies. They come with who we are.”
My brows knitted together. What, exactly, does he know?
“I don’t know who we are, though,” I said. “I don’t know who I am, and I certainly don’t know who you are. I have these stupid, freaky things about me, and I’m glad you don’t care, but you apparently have quirks, too. I have these deep, raw feelings for the person I’ve come to know, and I honestly want to return the words, but . . .” My voice trailed off.
“But you want to know the rest of me,” he finished. “To be sure.”
“Yes. I want to stop the lies and the secrets. I want a real relationship with you. But I need to know.”
His eyes darkened. “You’ll change your mind.”
I shook my head, rocking it on the tile floor. “I’m not changing my mind. I need to know. For us.”
“I meant about your feelings for me,” he muttered, his eyes dropping so I couldn’t see them.
Is it really that bad? I couldn’t imagine it being too horrible—he was just too good. Good like Mom good. And I knew he wasn’t just good to me, but good for me. Whatever secrets he kept, I thought I could get over them. And regardless, our relationship couldn’t go on any longer like it had been.
“Just tell me,” I whispered. “Tell me who you are. Tell me everything.”
He raised his eyes and held mine so I knew he was serious, then simply said, “Okay.”
“Okay? For real?”
“Yes. Okay. You deserve to know . . . and I’ll deal with whatever happens.” He smiled, but it was sad. “But . . .”
“Of course there’s a ‘but’,” I moaned.
“But,” he continued, “I can’t do it alone. You have to get Sophia to agree, too.”
“Why? What does she have to do with it?”
“To understand me, you need to know more about yourself. And only she can tell you that.”
I groaned with frustration. Of course, he had to give the ultimatum that could never be met.
“Trust me, she’ll do it,” he said.
“I doubt it,” I muttered.
“She knows it’s time. She’ll do it.” He sounded more confident than he should. I wondered how he could know, but he distracted me with his intense gaze again. “Right now, though, I really need to know if you trust me.”
As I looked into his eyes, I knew what I felt, and it was more than trust, even if I couldn’t name it yet. And I didn’t know if anything could change my mind.
“Yes, Tristan, I trust you.”
He leaned down and kissed me. “Good. Because I’m going to make you better . . . but now things are going to get really weird.”
He removed the towel from my thigh, and I propped myself on my elbows to watch. He lowered his head and placed his mouth over the wound.
The pain immediately subsided, replaced by strange but pleasurable jolts shooting up and down my leg. His hands gently held my upper thigh and calf, spreading electric tingles along my skin, as his mouth moved around the edges of the gash like passionate kisses. It was the most sensual thing we’d done so far—this was so unlike him. He looked up at me, sparks in his eyes.
“There’s so much blood,” he groaned quietly.
He lowered his mouth again, and I felt a stimulating, tugging sensation as he sucked. A distant voice way back in a far corner of my mind tried to tell me something, but I ignored it. I wanted his mouth on me, doing whatever he was doing because it felt so damn good, and I wished he’d do it everywhere. Warmth spread through my lower body as his hands caressed my leg. I’d never had an orgasm before, so I didn’t know what it felt like, but I thought this might be close. A moan might have escaped my mouth.
“Tristan!” Mom suddenly stood behind him in the hallway, yanking me out of the oblivion.
“Oh! What the hell are you doing?” I shrieked, lurching my whole body away from him.
I stared at him, my eyes bugged as I realized exactly what he’d been doing. My stomach tilted. He stared back at me, an unreadable expression on his face, the sparks in his eyes dimming to just gold flecks.
Blood trickled from the corner of his mouth, and he swiped it away with his thumb.
“Tristan, what were you doing?” Mom asked.
“Sucking my blood like a fucking vampire,” I answered for him, and Mom tsked at my language.
But Tristan laughed. Actually laughed. “I thought you like vampires.”
“Not for real! Is that what you thought? That I’d like it? That I’d get off on you sucking my blood? You’re a bigger freak than I am!” I ignored the fact that I basically had been getting off on it. Ugh. What was wrong with me?
Tristan shook his head as he rocked back on his heels at my feet, a smile still on his face.
“I didn’t purposely suck your blood. It was just . . . in the way.” The smile disappeared as he turned to look at Mom. “She’s not healing. At least not fast enough. I was trying to help.”
“What? You think your saliva heals? Like a dog?” I snarled.
“Actually, yes . . . it does,” Tristan said quietly. I stared at him, waiting for the humor to return. It didn’t.
“He’s right,” Mom confirmed with a nod.
“What? How do you know?”
“Alexis, relax.” Mom squeezed into the tiny bathroom, sat on the tub’s edge behind me, and smoothed my hair. “There’s a lot to explain, but right now, I just need you to trust us.”
“Trust you? I⁠—”
“You trust me, right?” she asked.
“Yes,” I said automatically. “But . . .”
Does she really expect me to believe all this? Does she really believe it?
“Alexis, does your leg still hurt?” Tristan asked.
I narrowed my eyes at him. I didn’t want to tell him the truth. I was too stunned . . . and mad at him. I could feel something in my heart starting to crack, realizing he really was too good to be true. I’d known all along there had to be something wrong with him. But I’d never imagined this. He’d turned my fascination with vampires against me in a bizarre, sick way to try to get me into the sack after all. Either that or . . . his secrets really were worse than I ever thought. What have I gotten myself into?
But I couldn’t deny that the pain in my leg was gone. It wasn’t that my leg was just numb, either.
“No,” I admitted. “Actually, it feels good.”
Mom leaned over and peered at the injury. “It looks like it’s trying to heal.”
Tristan examined it, too, holding my leg gently but firmly when I tried to pull away from him. “It looks a lot better already. It finally stopped bleeding.”
Mom scooted down between my back and the bathtub. “Finish, Tristan.”
“What?” I tried to get up and away from them both. Is she crazy? But Mom wrapped her arms around me and held me tightly. She nodded at Tristan but he didn’t move, except to shake his head.
“Not if she doesn’t want me to.”
“You are not doing that again!” I squirmed in Mom’s arms. My thigh hit against her leg, and the wound seared with renewed pain. “Ouch!”
“If you don’t be still, it’ll start bleeding again,” Mom whispered calmly in my ear. “If there’s no blood, he doesn’t have to suck it out. He can just heal it. Or, you can sit here in pain for a few hours and hope it heals itself. If it doesn’t, I’ll have to sew it, and you can be in pain for a few days. So . . . you can be miserable, or you can trust us. The choice is yours.”
Moisture welled in my eyes as the throbbing returned. I stared at Tristan through the tears, and his face looked as pained as I felt. His eyes were dark, the gold dim.
“Lexi, I can make it go away,” he said quietly. “But only if you want me to.”
I knew then he was honestly doing it for me. To help me, not to take advantage of me. I leaned back against Mom, squeezed my eyes shut, and nodded. As soon as his mouth was against my thigh, the pain disappeared, replaced by an exciting hum through my nerves. My eyes still closed tightly, I tried hard not to envision what he did. I didn’t feel any sucking, only warm, wet kisses, but not nearly as sensual as the first time. Perhaps because Mom was here. Or because now I realize how freakin’ weird it is!
The kissing sensations stopped, and all I could feel were the lingering tingles and the familiar sensation of my body healing. I slowly opened my eyes.
“Much better,” Tristan said, studying the injury.
Mom leaned over to check it out. “Yes. Much.”
I couldn’t look at Tristan, not sure exactly how I felt at the moment. Disgust, guilt, fear . . . Curiosity won, and I eventually gave in and looked at the wound.
“Whoa,” I breathed. I watched with fascination as the deep fibers knitted themselves back together, the wound closing from the inside outward. I could only watch for so long, though—it was pretty gross and nauseating.
After a few minutes, Tristan ran his hand up and down my leg, sending currents under my skin. “See? Your leg is nearly as sexy as it was this morning.”
I looked again, and sure enough, the gash had completely disappeared. A long, dark bruise marked its place—bruises took longer to heal than cuts, something having to do with blood vessels in the deeper tissue. It’d be gone by Thanksgiving dinner tomorrow.
“Is that your medical training?” I demanded.
He laughed. “No. That comes naturally.”
I narrowed my eyes and jabbed my finger at him. “You have a lot of explaining to do.”
He grabbed my finger and kissed the tip of it before I yanked it away. He sighed, and his eyes dimmed. “Yes, I do. Sophia?”
I suppressed a groan of defeat, knowing her answer.
“Yes, we both do.”
I twisted around as much as I could to see her face. “Really?”
She closed her eyes and exhaled sharply. “Yes, really.”
“You’re going to tell me all about me . . . us?”
She shook her head and opened her eyes. “No, not everything. I can’t provide a lot of details. My soul’s existence relies on keeping our secrets until you are able to understand. You’ll have to wait for most of it, but I’ll tell you what you need to know to understand what Tristan has to say.”
Her soul’s existence? She’d never put it like that before.
“First, though, we have some things to deal with at the store,” she continued as she stood up, lifting me to my feet as well.
I gingerly placed weight on my right leg, but it felt fine. Mom squeezed past me, already heading for the front door.
“I need to get back there. I told the police I was going in the backroom to make some phone calls, and right now Owen is handling everything.”
“Oh! How’s the driver?” I asked. “Is he okay?”
She frowned, shook her head, and whispered, “No, he’s . . . he’s dead.”
I gasped. “How?”
“I don’t know yet. Just wait about fifteen minutes after I leave, then come to the store, as if I’d called you. We can talk about everything while we clean up.”
I couldn’t believe all the bombshells dropped in the last ten minutes, and now I had to wait. Again.
“Mom . . . ?”
“I guess that one’s out of the bag, huh?” She turned to look at Tristan and me, her hand on the doorknob. “Alexis . . . I’ve known Tristan a long time. Well, our family has. He’s familiar with who I am and what that means for you.”
“Our families know each other?” So I’d been right. Partially, anyway. “But I’m guessing Lenny isn’t part of it.”
“Lenny?” Mom echoed, obviously baffled by my inaccurate conclusion.
“I don’t have any family,” Tristan muttered bitterly from behind me.
Mom’s face cleared. “No, my relatives—our relatives—have known Tristan for a long time. I’ll explain later. For now, well . . . you can trust Tristan. I wasn’t sure at first, but I know now.”
Before I could ask anything else, she was gone, the door shutting behind her. I stared at it for a long moment.
“I need to go,” Tristan said quietly from right behind me.
I spun around. “Oh, no, you’re not. You’re staying here and explaining yourself, just as you said. You’re not running away from me now, Tristan. You will⁠—”
His glorious smile stopped me.
“What?” I asked with bewilderment. What is he smiling about now? As far as I was concerned, there was absolutely no reason for it.
“You really don’t want me to leave?” he asked.
“Of course not.”
He placed a hand against the door on each side of me, leaning close. My back pressed against the door as his eyes penetrated into mine. “Why? Because you want to hear what a freak I am? Or because you really want me to stay?”
I hated how he looked at me so intensely. It disarmed me. I forgot to be mad. “Um . . . both?”
He sighed. “I really need to go.”
“Please don’t,” I said quietly, “don’t leave me.”
“Why?” he demanded again, his eyes searching deeply into mine.
I swallowed hard.
“Because . . . because I’m afraid you won’t come back,” I finally whispered, dropping my head and letting my hair hide my face. “Just like the others . . .”
“Alexis,” he murmured, lifting my chin with his thumb to look me in the eye. “Lexi . . . I’m not like the others, but I do have to go now.”
The corners of his mouth twitched, like he wanted to smile, but his eyes were dark, serious. And when I felt that crack in my heart again, I knew it didn’t hurt because I was scared of who he was. It hurt because I was afraid to lose him. I jerked my face away from his hand and ducked under his arm. I didn’t want him to see the betrayal and sadness quickly rising to the surface.
“Fine, if that’s what you want,” I muttered, my back to him.
“Yes, it’s what I want,” he said, and the crack grew larger, making my breath catch. “Because if we’re going to the store, I think I should have a shirt on. I promise I’ll be right back.”
And, just like Mom, he was out the door, shutting it behind him before I could respond.
I spun around and slammed my fists against the door. How does he do that to me? I could imagine the huge, smug grin on his face.
“Who are you, Tristan Knight?” I asked the empty house as I turned and slumped against the door.
Chapter 12
CHAPTER 12
After a minute or so, I finally straightened up and engaged the lock. If he comes back, he’ll have to beg me to come inside! Then I stomped to my bedroom to change out of my own bloodstained clothes. I never heard the motorcycle come or go, but Tristan was back by the time I’d washed the dried, matted blood out of my hair and dressed. He sat at the kitchen table, waiting for me, when I skidded to a stop in the doorway.
“How did you . . . ?” I asked with wonder, looking at the front door I knew I’d locked and back at him.
“You should really lock the doors when you’re home alone,” he said.
“I did!”
He nodded at the back door, off the kitchen. “Are you sure?”
I groaned. “Don’t do that to me! For a second there, I thought you could just magically appear out of nowhere, too.”
He chuckled. “Are you ready?”
“Absolutely. I need some explanations before I go insane.”
My phone rang just as Tristan opened the front door.
“Alexis, honey, you can’t come here,” Mom said when I answered while walking outside. “You and Tristan both need to stay away.”
“Why?”
“The media is here,” she said, as if that were enough explanation. Tristan swore, then grabbed my shoulders and steered me back toward the house.
“And . . . so?” Since we supposedly hadn’t been there, they wouldn’t have anything to ask us.
“Honey, you both just need to stay out of it. Owen and I will finish up, and I’ll be home as soon as I can.” Her voice was firm, and I knew there was something more she couldn’t tell me. “We’ll talk about everything when I get home, okay?”
“Promise?”
“You deserve to know. Can you please start a pot of coffee? We’ll need it.”
“Yeah, sure.” I hung up and headed for the kitchen while Tristan locked the front door. “How frustrating.”
“She’s right, though. It wouldn’t be a good idea for us to be there.” He leaned against the counter. “We need to stay under the radar.”
“Why?”
“You and I, well, we don’t need to be broadcasting we’re together. Certain . . . people . . . don’t need to know,” he said cryptically. I stared at him, waiting for an explanation. “You’ll find out soon. Tonight. Just wait for Sophia.”
I groaned with frustration and impatience. Coffee grounds spilled everywhere as I sloppily scooped them out of the can and practically threw them into the filter basket. I took a deep breath to calm myself and thought of a question I could ask and not have to wait for the answer.
“So, what kind of medical training do you have, anyway?”
He rubbed the back of his neck. “Well, erm, to be completely honest . . . pre-med and some med school.”
I looked at him, confused. “How did you do all that already? You’re only twenty, right?”
He grimaced. “Yeah, about that . . .”
“What?” I asked with trepidation, quickly realizing this wasn’t such a safe topic after all.
“Well, uh . . . you know how Sophia doesn’t age?”
“Yeah.” I waited for him to finish, but he just looked at me with his eyebrows raised. “You . . . ? No way!”
He smiled weakly and shrugged.
“Really? So how old are you?”
“Well, um . . .” I’d never heard so many “well, um’s” come from Tristan, never seen him so uncomfortable. He really didn’t want to tell me. “I was, uh, born in 1743, but I don’t like to think of it that way. I prefer to be somewhere between nineteen and twenty-four.”
My mouth dropped as I held the coffee pot in midair. What the . . . ? Then several thoughts flew through my mind . . . his quick reflexes and uncanny physical abilities on the basketball court . . . his travels all over the world . . . he could heal . . . his strength . . . how he appeared in my kitchen when there was no reason the back door would be unlocked . . . the fire in his eyes . . . Mom at the store, stressing how much blood there was . . . I inhaled sharply. He sucked my blood!
“Oh my god.” The coffee pot shook in my hand and then began sliding through my fingers, but I was in too much shock to do anything but watch it fall. Just before it hit the floor, Tristan’s hand darted down and caught it. I jumped back several feet. “Holy shit. You are a vampire!”
He looked at me, and something flickered in his eyes.
“Alexis,” he said as he set the pot on the counter, “don’t be absurd.”
“Absurd?” I shrieked, backing away from him. “I know vampires. I read and watch and research and write about them all the time. And you have all of the characteristics. Well, except the pale skin. And you can go out in the sun. And you don’t have fangs or anything. But maybe those are myths . . .”
“Are you listening to yourself?”
I stopped and stared at him. And then I realized what I said and knew he was right. It was quite absurd. But the whole night was completely absurd.
“Are you listening to yourself?” I shot back. “All night long . . . all these things about you . . . Or are you making them up, still thinking I have some fantasy to be with a vampire?”
He chuckled. “I promise you, that’s not what I’m doing. Please stop thinking such nonsense.”
“Well . . .” Frustration overwhelmed me. “I’m sorry! But this night is completely crazy. What with almost being killed, and you, and everything else . . . I think I have a right to be freaked out. At this point, I’m not sure what to believe.”
“You can believe this,” he murmured before he flicked his hand, and somehow I flew the eight or so feet between us and was suddenly in Tristan’s arms. My breath caught, and my heart stopped beating. “The last I checked, vampires couldn’t do that.”
“How . . . did you . . . do that?” I croaked.
“It’s a special ability,” he said quietly. “A quirk, as you call it.”
“Don’t let go of me,” I whispered, “or I might pass out.”
“Don’t worry,” he murmured, his lips right against my ear. “I like you right where you are.”
“You’re really not a vampire?”
“Absolutely not. I’m much more dangerous.” He lowered his mouth against my neck and sucked lightly. “But I can pretend to be one, if you ever want me to.”
“Tristan . . .”
“Sorry. But you do taste quite delicious.” He sucked again.
“Tristan.” I squirmed out of his arms. “You’re distracting me.”
“Good.” He grinned. I rolled my eyes. “Then what would you like to do while we wait for Sophia?”
I returned to making the coffee, filling the pot with water, and the normalcy of the action calmed my erratic heart. I needed this anchor to reality before delving into more questions.
“Tell me more,” I finally said, “what you can tell me. Are you really that . . . old?”
His smile disappeared, and he didn’t answer for several moments. “Yes, I am. But, like I said, I prefer not to think about it like that. You’ll understand—I hope, anyway—by the time the night is over.”
I could tell there was something ominous coming later. I hated having to wait for it, but I wanted complete answers, which I wouldn’t get without Mom.
“Okay, then . . .” I poured the water into the coffee maker and turned it on while trying to think of a different subject. “So, uh . . . if you went to med school, how come you’re not a doctor? Oh, wait. You probably are, aren’t you?”
He shook his head. “I could never complete the program, since I didn’t age through it.”
I could actually understand that. “Oh, yeah, right. Mom’s mentioned similar . . . problems.”
He looked at me for a long moment and then took my hands into his and gently pulled me closer to him. “Alexis, you’re going to find out some things about me . . . about my past . . . that you won’t like. It may be enough to make you detest me and never want to see me again.”
I shook my head. “I highly doubt that.”
“Don’t decide yet. Hear it all out. But I need to tell you something, in case this is my last chance. I need you to know this.” He cupped his hands on each side of my face, holding me there so he could gaze directly into my eyes. “Alexis . . . you are my soul mate.”
If he didn’t look so sincere, his eyes pleading with me to understand, I might have laughed, believing the words to be a cheesy joke. But he was dead serious. My breath caught, and my eyes widened. How could he know that? How could he say such a thing? I opened my mouth, although I wasn’t sure if questions or protests would come out first. He pressed his hand over my lips.
“Please just listen. I’m not looking for anything from you, but I need to say this.” He paused, and I nodded for him to go on. “As preposterous as it sounds, I’ve loved you since the day you first sat next to me in that women’s studies class. I didn’t know it then, but I can’t deny it. Now that you’re going to find out who I really am, you’ll understand how incredibly amazing, but so unexpected this is. Before I met you, I didn’t know I could love anyone. But . . . I love you, ma lykita.”
I stared back into his eyes, and although he wasn’t who I thought he was—not normal, in other words—I couldn’t deny his feelings or my own. So when he pressed his mouth against mine, I happily kissed him back. As I did, his hands slowly slid down my neck, over my shoulders, and down my arms. I cringed as sharp pains shot through my forearms at his touch.
He abruptly pulled back and lifted my wrists in each of his hands, studying my arms.
“Ah, shit,” he muttered.
Two bumps on my left forearm and three more on my right, each about the size of a nickel, swelled under my skin. “What are they?”
“Glass. You healed with pieces of glass still in the wounds.”
“What?” He spoke real words, but I couldn’t grasp the meaning. It just wasn’t registering.
“Alexis . . . your skin grew around them.”
I stared at my arms. That’s a new one. I’d never thought of it being an issue before, and now that I did—imagining the glass embedded under my skin—my stomach clenched.
“Ew,” I breathed, incapable of saying anything else and unable to take my eyes off the lumps.
“Where does Sophia keep her medical kit?” Tristan asked. He started throwing open and banging closed the kitchen cabinet doors.
“Um . . . in her room, I think. Why?”
He took my hand and pulled me toward the hallway and Mom’s bedroom.
“I need to see if she has a scalpel in there.”
“What?” I stopped as if I’d run into an invisible brick wall, yanking him to a halt.
“We need to remove the glass while it’s still close to the surface.”
I gulped. “You have to cut it out?”
“Your body will eventually expel it, but that could take weeks, or months, or even years. And in the meantime, it could cause infection.”
I stared at the lumps on my arms, imagining the cutting and digging. My head became light and woozy as the blood drained to my feet.
“You’re turning green,” he said, wrapping his arm around my waist. “You okay?”
“Um . . . no.” Sweat beads popped out on my forehead.
Mom came through the front door just then, quickly shutting and locking it behind her. She gave us a strange look as we stood there in the hallway.
“Honey, are you okay?” she asked, concern quickly filling her eyes. “You’re green.”
I lifted my arms for her to see. I could tell she knew immediately what was wrong—her whole body seemed to sink in defeat.
“Can this night get any worse?” she muttered.
“Tristan says we have to cut them out?” I made it a question, really hoping she had a better idea.
She quickly regained her composure and started barking orders. “Tristan, get some old towels from the broom closet. I’ll get my kit. You, Alexis, just sit and put your head between your legs. You really don’t look so good.”
Within a few minutes, my desk lamp was set up on the kitchen table, the bright light glinting off a scalpel, tweezers, a needle and syringe, and a small glass bottle. Mom sat down on my right side, taking my hand to stretch my arm across a folded towel for padding.
“Uh . . . maybe Tristan should do it,” I hedged. “I mean, he did go to medical school and all.”
Mom glanced up at Tristan, who still stood beside me.
“There’s been a lot that’s come out already,” he admitted.
He gave her a quick rundown of what I already knew as he sat in the chair to my left and took my free hand into his.
“Don’t worry, Alexis, I know what I’m doing, too,” Mom said. She slid the needle into the rubber top of the bottle and filled the syringe with a clear liquid. “I used to be a nurse, after all.”
“Seriously?” I asked. How come she’d never mentioned it?
“Actually, that’s how I first met Tristan. During the Second World War⁠—”
“The Second World War?” I flinched more from surprise at what she said than from the needle she just stuck into my arm. “That was, what, the 1940s? You’re only forty-three. You weren’t even born yet.”
“Yes, well, that was easier for you to understand, when you did the math. But I’m actually . . . a-hundred-and-sixteen.”
“What?” My eyes bugged, and a hysteric laugh burst out. They’re ancient! “But . . . how? Will I be like that, too?”
“I can’t answer the first one, and God willing, yes to the second.” She stood up and poured us all a cup of coffee as I tried to absorb that, but I couldn’t. I’m going to live that long . . . or longer? I looked at Tristan, and he squeezed my hand.
“Think your mom’s a vampire, too? Or you, for that matter?” he asked with a small smile.
“Vampires? Ha! If only it was so simple,” Mom said, bringing our coffee cups over to the table. She sat back down, and we sipped our coffee for a few moments, waiting for the anesthetic to take effect. She pressed her fingers in several places along my forearm.
“Can you feel that?”
“No.”
She picked up the scalpel, and I must have turned green again.
“You probably shouldn’t watch,” she warned.
I laid my head against the table, looking away, toward Tristan. He brushed my hair back and stroked my cheek. I felt pressure on my arm, but no pain. I concentrated on Tristan’s face, trying hard not to visualize what I felt.
“So . . . to start at the beginning,” Mom said as she worked, “we—me, you, our family—are a part of the Amadis.”
“A Mod Ease?”
“Right. The Amadis. The best I can explain it for now is the Amadis is like a society or culture. Our family began the original Amadis, but others have joined us.”
“Like a cult?” I asked, looking up in surprise.
Mom shook her head. “No, not a cult. It’s the society or civilization for . . . people like us.”
“There are other people like us, with quirks and everything?”
“Not exactly like us . . . but they’re not like normal people either. That’s all I can say for now.” She picked up the tweezers, about to poke them into the hole in my arm. I laid my head back down.
“So our family started this Amadis, but others have joined it?”
“Others who are sort of like us and want to live like us—for good, not evil. So, the Amadis, which is our family, and Tristan’s . . .”
She hesitated, like she didn’t know what to call Tristan’s relatives.
“Creators,” he filled in for her, his voice hard. “I’m telling everything about me, so let’s just get it out there. I was technically born, but those were not anything I would call parents. It’s more accurate to say I was created. Genetically designed . . . to be the ultimate warrior.”
Chapter 13
CHAPTER 13
Genetically designed? The ultimate warrior? I wanted to laugh—it sounded ludicrous—but Tristan’s face showed complete candor.
“The ultimate warrior for the Daemoni,” Mom said, disgust filling that last word, and I knew this was no joke. “The Amadis and the Daemoni are, well, we’ll just say innate enemies. You’ll have to wait for the story behind it, but you can understand I mean much more than rivals or feuding families. Our very kinds are, by nature, opposites.”
“Our kinds? What does that mean?”
The tugging sensation in my arm stopped as Mom sighed in frustration. “Honey, you just have to accept some things as the way they are without further explanation. Yes, our kinds, as in our kinds of species.”
My head shot up again. “Species? We’re not even human? What the hell are we, aliens?”
To my complete bewilderment, both Mom and Tristan chuckled.
“We’re human . . . sort of,” Mom said, “just different than everyone else, which you already knew. And that’s all I can say. Besides, you’re still very much human, and you will be for a long time.”
Of course. The Ang’dora. So the Ang’dora would make me less human . . . and more like Mom. She didn’t seem like a different species, though.
“You can’t say things like that and not explain.”
She studied my face for a moment. “I’m sorry. I know it’s not fair, but I’m not allowed to go into it. This is about Tristan, not us. I’ve been given permission to tell you what you need to know to understand him, but nothing more.”
“But you’re saying he’s a different kind than us! How am I supposed to understand?”
“I’m not, really, a different kind,” Tristan said. “Just be patient. You’ll understand soon.”
My eyes bounced between the two of them. Tristan looked apologetic—like he understood my frustration and wanted to tell me more. But Mom’s face was set firmly. She wouldn’t budge.
“Okay, fine,” I sighed. “So our family⁠—”
“My side of your family,” Mom corrected. Of course, there’s another side. I tended to forget that. The sperm donor, as I referred to him when I had to, had never been a part of my life, and Mom never spoke of him. Now there seemed to be a reason why she made that distinction, but she quickly jumped on my thought. “No, I can’t tell you about the other side right now.”
She bent her head over my arm again, squirting it with water to flush out the blood. Then she picked up the tweezers.
“Right. Of course not,” I mumbled, laying my head back down. I didn’t mind avoiding that topic as much as the others. “So, the Amadis . . . if we are natural enemies of the . . . Day-what?”
“Daemoni,” Mom filled in.
“Right. And they created Tristan, so he is . . . ?”
Tristan’s face darkened, and his eyes dropped from mine.
“Basically . . . designed to kill your kind,” he said grimly, wincing at his own words, as if they physically hurt him. “Their main purpose in creating me was to lead them into victory over the Amadis . . . and, eventually, humankind. The instinctual desire to seek your kind out and kill without hesitation was bred into me.”
I raised my head and tried to gulp down the boulder-sized lump in my throat. It remained stuck.
“Kill us?” I whispered around it.
He slowly lifted his eyes to mine. Agony filled them.
“But you’re not a killer,” I said quietly, finding this more difficult to believe than anything else they’d told me . . . or not told me. He dropped his eyes again and stared at our hands in his lap, my free one between both of his. I had sensed danger in him. But murder? It didn’t make sense. I shook my head in denial. And then I remembered . . .
“That threat I overheard,” I whispered.
“An empty one. But I have killed people.” He kept his eyes averted from mine. “Innocent people. Amadis. That was my way of life.”
I gulped and blinked back the tears stinging my eyes.
“Was your way of life, but not anymore,” Mom added.
“Absolutely,” Tristan said fiercely. “I turned my back on that many, many years ago, before you were born, Alexis, thanks to Sophia. She persuaded me to see the Daemoni from a new perspective, and I saw how evil they were . . . how evil I was. They are, in all respects of the word, Demons. Evil spirits. Followers and soldiers of Satan himself.”
His voice was cold, his face contorted in disgust. The hairs on the back of my neck prickled.
Looking at him and knowing him the way I did, I couldn’t believe it. Then I thought about the flames I’d seen in his eyes. And how, this very night, he’d said he was much more dangerous than a vampire. I’d thought he was joking at the time. I shivered. He frowned, his brows furrowing.
“A little over twenty years ago, Sophia somehow convinced me there was good inside me,” he continued, his tone and expression softening from revulsion to appreciation with each word. “She took me to the Amadis, and they taught me how to change inside, how to pull that good out and allow it to be the overpowering force within me.”
“See, in their greedy desire to create the perfect warrior, the Daemoni underestimated the power of two types of blood they included in Tristan’s,” Mom explained. “There is enough Amadis and enough humanity in him that he was able to overcome the evil.”
“So, you have Amadis in you? You are like us?” I asked, feeling hopeful after all the repulsive information they’d told me about this man I’d come to adore, perhaps even loved.
“If you trace it back several centuries, we have ancestors in common. I do have Amadis blood, but that doesn’t make it easy to be like you.”
“Tristan’s been through a lot of pain and turmoil to strengthen this side of him,” Mom added.
“It still takes solid concentration and self-control, but it’s worth it. I’ll never return to who—or what—I once was.” The conviction came clear in his voice—as clear as the pain. “So, I came here to find you and Sophia, but I knew it had to be done in a certain way. It had to be in a place where you would be safe, just in case . . .” His voice drifted off as he paused for a moment. “The Amadis told me you were taking classes at the university here, so I enrolled, too, hoping we would cross paths. I needed to know I could be around you without having an overwhelming urge to . . .”
He drifted again, unable to finish.
“Kill me,” I whispered.
He finally looked at me, and torture filled his eyes. He seemed to be pleading for me to understand. I tried to imagine what it would feel like to have an inherent desire to kill someone—as strong and natural as the need to drink when parched or eat when starving—and then to try to overcome that force when the object of desire was right there to be easily taken. The morsel of food or jug of water—or innate enemy—right there, taunting . . . The thought of harming someone innocent repulsed me so much I couldn’t complete the picture in my mind. I just knew it had to be nearly unbearable to fight that impulse . . . and the feeling of not conquering it could only be worse. Especially when the person you wanted to hurt—to kill—was the person you also loved.
I tempted this urge in him and didn’t even know what he went through. My heart ached for Tristan and the struggle for control he had to fight every time he was with me. I squeezed his hand once to communicate I understood and then tried to pull my hand from his, thinking that just touching him made it even worse for him. He held tighter to mine, though, and shook his head.
“It’s way too late for you to worry now,” he whispered.
“Done with this arm,” Mom said, standing up. “Trade places with me, Tristan.”
Tristan took my hand as soon as he was seated again, now on my right.
“This is why I was so concerned when I first saw you with Tristan,” Mom said as she rearranged everything in front of her. “I hadn’t seen him in twenty years, and I didn’t know how he was. The Amadis told me over the years he was still with us, but he stayed away most of the time, so I didn’t know for sure.”
She filled the syringe again, and I looked back at Tristan as she stuck the needle into my arm.
“I was too ashamed,” he muttered, dropping his eyes from mine, staring at his lap again. “I am supposed to be this strong, invincible, nearly perfect being, but it took immense effort to control my own nature. I didn’t want the Amadis to see and know that about me. I would check in to let them know I hadn’t gone back to the Daemoni and to absorb Amadis power when I needed it.”
“Amadis power?” I asked. “What is that?”
“Sorry, hon,” Mom said. “I can’t give details. Just remember you and I—and Tristan—have unusual . . . abilities. Our powers must come from somewhere, right?”
Abilities? Powers? I’d never thought of them that way. They’d always been annoying quirks that made us weird. But after everything that happened tonight, and thinking about everything Mom and Tristan could do that wasn’t normal, I realized that’s exactly what they were. I looked at Mom and opened my mouth to ask a question, but she shook her head.
“This is about Tristan,” she reminded me, seeing my frustration.
She pressed along my left arm, and not able to feel it, I shook my head. She picked up the scalpel, and I immediately turned toward Tristan.
“Can I tell her what the Amadis power does for me?” he asked Mom. “So at least she can understand some of it and its importance to me?”
When Mom didn’t answer—and I didn’t feel any pressure on my arm yet—I looked at her. She seemed to be considering it, then finally nodded.
I laid my head down again and watched Tristan as he stared at the table and explained. “Amadis power allows me to conquer the . . . monster . . . within me. It strengthens the goodness, so it can overcome everything else bred into me.”
“So it’s good for you,” I said.
“Yes,” he answered quietly. “I need it.”
“You would’ve been better off staying with them,” Mom admonished. Tristan didn’t answer. He looked at me again.
“Once I realized that, with great effort, I could control myself with you, I wanted to learn more about you. You intrigued me . . . and you made me happy. In all my years, I had never experienced that emotion—happiness—and you gave it to me in a day.” He smiled, but it didn’t reach his eyes.
I hurt to hear he’d never once felt happiness in his two-hundred-odd years. That’s such a long time to live. And to be miserable the whole time? But I never had either. In my very short life, I could not remember ever feeling real joy. Mom and I had some good memories, but not true happiness. Not like what I felt when I was with Tristan. He brought the best out of me. And now I couldn’t imagine not being with him—going back to my old, dark, lonely life . . . I knew I just couldn’t do it. Even knowing what I did now. He was more than a boy, or rather, a man in my life. He’d become my best friend, especially now, knowing each other’s deepest, darkest secrets.
“So,” he continued, “I started looking for more ways to spend time with you without scaring you off. I realized immediately when I’m with you, that monster inside . . . well, it doesn’t exactly go away, but it’s . . . quiet, repressed. You bring out the good in me.”
“Like the Amadis power?” I asked, surprised.
He smiled again, less sorrow in it this time. “That’s what I thought at first.”
“It couldn’t be,” Mom said. “Until the Ang’dora, your power is extremely weak. Not strong enough to do what you have for Tristan.”
“And it’s different,” Tristan added. “It’s who you are naturally, what you do to me. Nothing special or extraordinary. Just you being you. You bring out the best in me.”
Funny. I’d just been thinking the same about him. It dawned on me the connection we had—we each gave the other what we needed to truly thrive, to be the best we could be. We each fit perfectly into the empty space of the other’s soul—the space meant for our mates. Our soul mates . . .
“So you don’t want to kill me, right?” I asked, needing to divert my thoughts from that place in my heart I wasn’t ready to explore until I was alone.
Tristan grimaced. He stared at the table for a moment and then looked me directly in the eye. “I could not consciously harm a single hair on your head. I knew when I met you I had to maintain control—I could never hurt you—and it has become easier every day since. Even all that blood tonight . . . at one time that would have caused all hell to break loose. The part of hell they put within me, anyway. But not anymore.”
“Why?” I asked. “I mean, why do you think it’s easier to control now?”
“Because I love you,” he said matter-of-factly, still holding my eyes. “The pain I would feel if I ever did anything to you far outweighs any desire or force within me. That’s how I know what I feel is real. Sometimes that other force tries to fight it, but my love for you overpowers every other urge.”
Whoa. I had no words.
“Love tends to do that,” Mom said. “What you need to understand, Alexis, is how amazing it is for Tristan to feel that. To know love. He was created for the exact opposite . . . hatred and evil⁠—”
Tristan cringed.
Mom frowned. “Sorry, but unfortunately, it’s true. I personally thought it was impossible for Tristan to love anyone. He’s surprised us all, and me more than others. Many of the Amadis believed it could happen, that he could love. I didn’t think he would go back to his old life—I wasn’t positive, but I didn’t think he would—but I never thought he could come so far as to love. And I have to admit it bothered me at first, that the person he loves is you, my own daughter. But I see you two together every day. I can’t deny the truth.”
We sat quietly for a while, Mom continuing her mini-surgery on my arm. I closed my eyes, my mind whirling. A ticker tape of questions ran through my head, and I hit information overload, unable to process it all. And my heart . . . so many feelings filled it, I thought it might burst. Those three little words Tristan had said, along with everything else I now knew about him, opened a door I’d barely been able to consider before. I couldn’t process the emotions, either.
“Now that you know the truth, Alexis, I’ll understand if you can’t love me,” Tristan said quietly. “It’s a lot to accept.”
I chuckled. All this time I’d been worried about him not accepting me. He watched me as he waited for my answer, his eyes noticeably darkening with each beat of my heart. I knew he expected the worst. But all I could think about was what he overcame—his own natural desires, what he was made for—so he could be good. And I knew to my very core he was good. And he loved me. I squeezed his hand.
“I told you I wouldn’t change my mind,” I said.
He gazed into my eyes, and although I hadn’t said those all-important words, he must have seen the truth of my feelings because immediate relief washed over his face. He lifted my hand to his mouth and pressed his lips against the back of it.
“Okay, you’re glass-free,” Mom said, sitting back in her chair with a heavy sigh. “What a night.”
“So what happened at the store?” I asked. With such a surreal discussion, the accident now seemed like a different lifetime or dimension. “I mean, with the driver?”
“The police think he was drunk and tried to escape the car before it hit the store,” Mom said. “The door was open as if he planned to jump, but apparently, he must have just fallen out and under the car, because it rolled over him, crushing his neck and spinal cord.”
“Ugh.” My own injuries from the night now felt miniscule. I could only hope it was quick for him. “Do they know who he was?”
“His name was Phillip Jones. He lived here in the Cape. Some people from the bar came down to the scene, said he’d been drinking since this morning because his wife left him.”
Phillip . . . Phil . . . My mind flashed on the orange car sitting partially in the store . . . and then the orange Camaro the wife-beater at the park had jumped into when Tristan ran him off. Oh! I looked at Tristan, and he nodded with immediate understanding.
“Owen told me what happened at the park, and this was the same guy,” Mom said.
I bit my lip. “What did he tell you?”
“That you interrupted a domestic situation.” Her voice trailed off, and her eyes glazed over, then narrowed as the truth came to her. “Alexis! You hit him?”
Tristan spewed coffee all over the table. “I knew it!”
I jumped up for a paper towel, needing to escape their stares.
“He pissed me off,” I mumbled, handing the towel to Tristan.
“Why didn’t you say anything?” Mom asked.
“It wasn’t like James, but—” I tugged at my hair and glanced at Tristan. “But I was afraid you’d make us move anyway.”
Mom shook her head. “You and your temper. What am I going to do with you?”
I ignored the rhetorical question.
“Did Owen tell the police?” I asked. “They need to know, don’t they? Tristan and I should probably give a report, too, right? Probably tell them everything.”
“No,” Mom said, to my surprise. “Right now the police think a drunk driver lost control. Just an accident.”
“But, Mom, that’s obstruction of justice. He was purposely aiming for us!”
She and Tristan exchanged a look, then she said, “We don’t know that for sure, and we never will. What more justice can there be, anyway? He’s dead. What good can come of making it more than it seems?”
“Do you want that little girl to grow up thinking her dad attempted premeditated murder?” Tristan asked.
I sighed heavily as I slumped back in my chair, thinking of that poor little girl. I didn’t know whether to be relieved to know her dad would never hurt her or her mom again . . . or sad she would have to grow up without a dad at all. I decided to be relieved. From what I’d seen, he wasn’t much more of a father to her than my sperm donor was to me.
“I’m exhausted, and I think we better go to bed before this night gets any worse,” Mom said, standing up and stretching. “Now that this is all out, your invitation, Tristan, is as open as Alexis wants to make it. I’ll try to stay out of the way.”
He nodded, the corners of his mouth twitching as he fought a smile at her insinuation, and then he turned to me. “Do you want me to stay?”
I thought about whether I wanted him nearby or if I needed time to think by myself. There was still so much I didn’t know about him. I knew I wouldn’t be able to sleep, and if I needed to talk about anything, I would want him there. And I still wanted him in my life. I’d need time to sort out all of my feelings, but I knew I still cared for him, even more than I did just a few hours ago.
I placed my hand over his. “Yes, I want you to stay with me.”
Chapter 14
CHAPTER 14
I brushed my teeth and changed into a tank top and pajama shorts before Tristan joined me in my room. I sat on the bed nervously while he stood just inside the door.
“Are you okay with this?” he asked, hesitantly. “I mean, with me in general, first of all?”
I considered what he meant. My heart said I was okay with him, but my mind played devil’s advocate. He’s killed people. True, that was something I had to accept about him, but that was his past life. Not who he was now. Not my Tristan. He wants to kill me. No, he said he can’t, I reminded myself. He said his love was stronger.
“Yes, I am more than okay with you.”
“You’re not scared of me now?”
“Should I be? If you’d wanted to kill me, you’ve had plenty of opportunity.”
He grimaced. “Let’s not make light of it, okay?”
“Sorry. It’s just that I . . . trust you.”
He chuckled but there was no humor in it. “I tell you all this terrible stuff about me, and now you trust me?”
“Yeah, ironic, huh?” I thought about that for a moment. “I guess it goes to show how powerful the truth is. Whatever you did in the past doesn’t matter now. You’ve been forgiven. I care about who you are now.”
I gestured for him to come all the way into my room. He closed the door, then walked over to the bed and knelt on his knees so we were eye to eye, placing his hands on my thighs. I held my palms to his face, stroking his cheeks with my thumbs.
“You are now more a part of me than ever,” I whispered.
“Yes, I have given you everything,” he murmured. “Before I met you, I didn’t even know I really had a heart. And now it is yours—all yours.”
I pulled his face to mine and kissed him gently on his satiny lips. Then I kissed his forehead . . . and his eyelids . . . and his cheeks . . . and his chin . . . and the corners of his mouth. The built-up emotions of the night—fear, anxiety, shame, pain, sadness—crashed down on us and then were pushed away by the strongest of them all: love. Our lips moved together hungrily. I tasted the tangy-sweetness on his lips . . . his breath . . . his tongue.
Our kisses became more passionate as he leaned into me. My heart raced with excitement, my body pulsing with electrical charges he sent through it with every touch. I wrapped my legs around his waist and pressed my body into his while pulling him closer still with my arms. I wished I could melt into him and let him feel the powerful emotions inside me that I couldn’t yet name.
He laced his fingers into my hair and pulled gently back, exposing my neck. He moved his lips along my jaw, down my throat. I let out a sigh as he kissed my collarbone and then pulled my head back further, lifting my chest. My breasts tightened, aching for his touch. He nestled his face between them. His rigid body trembled against mine. I squeezed him with my arms and legs, inviting him to continue.
But he let go of my hair, and his body slackened as he breathed heavily against my chest. My own breathing was ragged as I struggled to use my brain, to figure out why he’d stopped.
We both sat there for a minute, him on his knees, his head against my chest, me holding him tight, but starting to relax. When the fog cleared from my mind, I knew it was good he’d stopped.
“I don’t think we should push it any further,” he finally said.
“Right,” I agreed, reluctantly releasing my grip.
“I should probably go home.”
“Please don’t,” I reacted. Then I remembered what I did to him—his internal struggle between wanting to love me and wanting to kill me—and my heart hurt for him again. “I mean, I wish you would stay, but if you think you need to . . .”
He rocked back on his heels, and his face was tight, as if concentrating hard on something. His eyes were closed, and he took careful, controlled breaths. When he opened his eyes, the gold looked more like fire than sparkles, but not bright flames like I’d seen before. That’s when I realized what the flames meant . . . he was about to lose control of the monster inside him. Each time I’d seen them, we’d been in a moment of passion, and passion led to loss of control, regardless of who—or what—you were. I knew that already from the little bit I’d experienced. He stopped us not only because he was a gentleman, but also to protect me. I shuddered.
“I do scare you,” he said quietly.
I shook my head.
“I trust you,” I whispered, my throat hot and dry. Ice water suddenly seemed absolutely necessary. “You want a glass of water?”
He smiled. “That would be wonderful.”
I stood up and found my legs to be weak and wobbly. By the time I returned and we both drained our glasses, we felt cooled down enough to lie safely together. We lay on our sides in my full-size bed, which had never felt small until his big body was in it. My back pressed against his chest, his arms around me, holding me close. But my mind continued to spin, not ready to shut down, questions still flying through it. I started with an easy one.
“So, when’s your birthday?”
“Ah. Now the questions.” He chuckled in my hair. “October 31.”
“Halloween? Oh . . . I guess that shouldn’t be surprising.”
“It was just a coincidence, though, especially since I was premature,” he said. “I was born. They didn’t hook me up to a machine and turn a switch on.”
“So you’re not like Frankenstein?”
“Definitely not. They just made sure the right genes . . . and other things . . . were a part of my creation. But I’m more like you than you realize.”
“You keep saying that, and I guess I believe it . . . although I still really don’t know who I am.”
“I’m sorry I can’t tell you, but it’s not my place.” He kissed the back of my head. “If you pay attention to your mom and to me—and really believe we’re alike—you’ll get an idea of who you’ll become.”
“Hmm . . . good idea. So, we missed your birthday. I’ll have to make that up to you.”
“No need. I prefer not to acknowledge it,” he said sadly. I realized the real reason of his dislike for Halloween.
“So how old do you say you are now?”
“My age is irrelevant. I can be whatever you’d like me to be.”
“Well, I’m eighteen, almost nineteen . . .” I sucked in my breath as a thought occurred to me. “You know, you are quite the dirty old man!”
He chuckled quietly in my ear. “I guess you could look at it that way. But I’d rather not. Let’s say I’m twenty, okay?”
“Okay. That works for me. So, how’d you meet Mom? During the war, I mean.”
“She was a nurse; I was a soldier.”
“You were a soldier? You fought in the war? Wait . . . which side were you on?”
He sighed. “I’ve fought in many wars, and most of the time not on the side you would prefer. But, in that one, I was on the Allied side. The Daemoni had an ulterior motive for me with some American soldiers.”
“Oh.” I didn’t know how to respond.
“I never completed it, though.”
“Why not?”
“One of my . . . targets . . . was severely wounded. Sophia took care of him. I knew who she was, but I couldn’t bring myself to do what I’d been created for. She was so tender and caring. She didn’t know this guy at all, but she showed so much . . . love for this complete stranger.” He paused. “That’s when I first started to comprehend the action of love—not the emotion, but at least what it looks like in action. I’d always hated the way I was, but I didn’t know any other way. Not until then. So I left her alone and left him alone. He became an influential reverend and then U.S. senator—that’s why I was supposed to take him out. I considered leaving the Daemoni then. I started thinking about whether I could be any different. It took nearly forty years, though, before I knew for sure I could change—the next time I met Sophia, when she took me to the Amadis.”
Wow. Tears filled my eyes. “She saved you,” I whispered.
“Yes, she did. That’s how I knew I was okay with her—I could be around her without any of those . . . urges—and I only had to worry about you. I knew she wanted me to stay away from you, but I couldn’t, and it was difficult to defy her like I did. I owe everything to Sophia—more than just my life. So much more.”
We lay silently for a minute or so. I thought he was done, but then he continued. “When I joined the Amadis, I shed that old life permanently. It was like a rebirth. I took the name Tristan Knight and started a whole new life, never looking back. I need you to understand that.”
“I know already,” I said quietly, squeezing his hand. “And, in that way, you are only around twenty.”
“Yes, that’s how I like to look at it.” I could hear the smile in his voice. “Now, can we change the subject? Or go to sleep?”
“If you wanted to sleep, you should’ve gone home.”
He chuckled. “Then ask a different question. Preferably, something about the present. The past is gone, and I’d rather you not think of me the way I was.”
“To me, you’ll always be my Tristan. We can leave the past where it belongs.”
He hugged me tighter in appreciation. I kissed his hand while I thought about an easier topic.
“Do you really do all that stock market and consulting stuff? Or was that just a cover?” I finally asked.
“No, I do that. I tried to be as honest as I could with you. Some of the consulting I do is for the Amadis. And one of my abilities is I can open my mind to see all the possibilities in a situation and identify the best solution or path to take, as long as I have the facts. So that stuff is easy to me.”
“Wow. That must make school easy. But why do you even bother with it?”
“Right now, as I said, to meet and get to know you. And it’s an appropriate thing to do at my age. The age I look, anyway.”
“Isn’t it boring, though? Surely you’ve learned all this before, especially these lower level classes.”
“If I’m actually going for a degree, yeah, some things can be repetitive. But many things have changed so much over the years that much of it is new to me, too.”
“How many degrees do you have?”
He chuckled lightly in my ear. “Three bachelor’s—finance, engineering, and architecture—and an MBA. I’ve done the medical thing a couple of times to keep up with all of the developments.”
“Wow,” I breathed. “That’s incredible. You don’t act or talk like you’re so educated. I mean, not that you act stupid or anything, you just don’t . . . talk down to me or the others, I guess.”
“I adapt, remember? I become the person I need to be for the situation.”
“Hmm . . .” This bothered me. I couldn’t help but wonder how much he’d adapted himself to be the person he needed to be for me.
He seemed to read my mind. “Don’t worry, I’m still me. Well, the me I want to be,” he said. “I just meant the way I talk, the words I use. The reason I said soul mate earlier—that I believe we are meant to be together—is because, first of all, you are the only one who has made me capable of loving, and secondly, because I can be the me I want to be, and it works with you.”
“It works very well,” I agreed, tucking away what else he’d said for later pondering. “Tell me about how you can heal other people. Mom and I can’t do that. Well, I don’t think Mom can. I’m not sure I really know anything at all anymore.”
“You won’t know what you can do until after the Ang’dora. It’s different for everyone. But, for me, each ability I have is more powerful than anyone else’s. The healing ability is strong in my DNA, so, in my saliva, in my blood . . .”
“Ah. So what are your other abilities? What does it mean to be the ultimate warrior?”
He sighed. “It means they designed me to be nearly perfect in mind and body to win any type of battle, mental or physical. They gave me the best offenses and the best defenses. But, I’m not completely infallible. I have my weakness . . .” His voice trailed off.
“My kind?”
“You specifically . . . in so many ways.”
“What do you mean?” I wanted to turn over, to see his face, but he held me tightly.
“You not only tempt my innate inhuman urges, but also my very basic, human desires. We are hazardous to each other. And I am weak to your happiness, so anything you ask of me, I will probably give. But the worst of it is if others—the Daemoni—see my love for you, they will use it against me . . . which means hurting you.”
“That’s why they can’t see us together. Why we had to stay away from the media tonight.”
“Exactly. This is a dangerous love we share.”
“So they’ll come after us?” A tremble of fear shook me.
“It’s okay, ma lykita. You have me—your ultimate warrior. I’m kind of created to kick some serious ass.” Although he lay behind me, in the dark, I knew he was grinning. I relaxed in his arms.
We lay in silence for a while. The green numbers on my clock glowed 3:41. I started to feel tired and my mind finally wound down. The electric currents had settled down, too.
“Tristan?” I whispered, wondering if he was still awake.
“Hmm?”
I almost didn’t ask . . . it would be embarrassing if he didn’t feel it, too.
“Um, do you still feel that electric current between us? It seemed like you did before, when we first got together.”
“Definitely.”
“Do you know what it is? I mean, is that part of . . . you? Who you are?”
He didn’t answer at first, thinking about it, I assumed. “I honestly am not sure. I think it’s part of who we are . . . but I haven’t figured that one out yet. But I like it.”
“Yeah, me, too,” I said with a grin. “Are you glad it’s all out now? I mean all the secrets? Because I am. It’s a relief to finally talk about it.”
“Now that I know you can accept me, yes, I am. I knew it had to happen and part of me couldn’t wait to tell you everything. Do you remember when you threw the dart at me?”
I snorted. “How could I forget? I was mortified!”
“I saw it coming as soon as you let go. I could have plucked the dart right out of the air before it got close.” He snapped his fingers in the air as if grabbing an invisible dart.
“Why didn’t you? I was so humiliated.”
He chuckled. “You were adorable. And that’s why I didn’t. I decided in that moment your reaction to super-human reflexes could be worse than to my ability to heal, since you can do that, too. So I made the safe choice. But you didn’t even notice.”
“I did notice the hole in your skin was pretty tiny, but I didn’t know what would’ve been normal. I generally don’t throw darts at people.”
“Just me, huh?”
“Yeah, you’re special.” I giggled, giddy from exhaustion. “But you didn’t say anything about healing then.”
“No, I let it go. I decided it was too soon. And I haven’t said anything since then because I’ve been afraid I’d lose you forever, and I didn’t know if I could handle that.”
How ironic that I’d been feeling the same way and my secrets were nothing compared to his. I realized how difficult it must have been for him, not just tonight, but since the day we met. My heart swelled, and the words hovered on my lips, but my brain wouldn’t allow me to say them. I needed distance from this night to evaluate my feelings. To make sure they were real.
“I love you, too, ma lykita,” he murmured into my ear, as though he knew the war waging between my head and heart.
But how did he know which side was winning?
“Sorry,” he said. “I didn’t mean to make assumptions. But I hope I’m right.”
And although I couldn’t quite admit it, I felt pretty sure he was.
Chapter 15
CHAPTER 15
The next month blew through like a fast-moving hurricane, with school, helping at the bookstore, finals, the holidays, and Tristan swirling around me. My life felt strangely normal, putting aside all the peculiar things I’d learned. Sometimes, especially when I was alone in bed at night, I’d think about what Mom and Tristan had told me. Questions floated lazily in my head just before I’d crash from exhaustion. I usually forgot them by the time I had the chance to ask. Mom shut me down on the few I did ask her—they weren’t relevant enough for her to give me answers. Tristan was more open, as long as they were about him, but not about his horrible past and definitely not about the Daemoni. Because of his willingness to tell me so much, I opened up to him, too. We started building a real relationship. We went from new best friends to an emotionally intimate friendship I’d always wanted, but never had until now.
I could no longer doubt what I felt for Tristan. If I couldn’t admit it before, the night he disclosed everything solidified my feelings. The fact that he not only accepted me as I was, quirks and all, but loved me was more than I’d ever thought possible. Of course, we were a lot alike in that way, so he couldn’t judge me for it, but he loved me. And if what he and Mom said was true, that was an amazing feat. With everything he’d overcome to be with me, let alone how he treated me, how could I not love him in return?
Now I just had to find the right time to tell him.
On the Sunday before Christmas, finals out of the way and only the holidays to worry about, Tristan and I went for a ride on the Harley to Gasparilla Island. We hadn’t been there since that one extraordinary weekend that now felt like a lifetime ago. It wasn’t quite the same as I remembered—like anything you hold in your memory as a special treasure, built up over time and looked forward to with great anticipation, it’s never quite as special as the first time. But it was still a favorite place. The air was cooler than it had been in October and the breeze stronger. We didn’t dare kick off our shoes and walk on the cold, wet sand. So when we stopped to enjoy the view, we watched from our perch on the bike, my body leaned against the backrest and Tristan’s against mine, my chin resting on his shoulder.
“So, I was thinking,” he started to say as we gazed over the beach.
“Uh-oh,” I teased before skimming my lips over his earlobe. “That can be dangerous, you know.”
“Hmm . . . I’ll try not to hurt myself. But I’ve been thinking about what to get you for Christmas.”
“Ah. It’s less than a week away, you know. You should have started thinking a long time ago.”
“I did, and I think I have the perfect gift, but I want to know what you want, just to be sure.”
“I have what I want right here.” I ran my lips over the curve of his jaw.
“Hmph. I’d like to give you something you can keep to remind you of me when I’m not around.”
“Like I can ever forget you.” I kissed his ear, and he sighed. I pulled back. “Well, before you do hurt yourself over this, I need to tell you the house rules. We only give gifts to each other that have significant meaning. So they can only be something we, ourselves, love dearly and are willing to give to the other, or something we’ve created with thought and love. Does that make it easier?”
“Hmm . . . then, yes, it’s perfect.” He relaxed against me.
I kissed his cheek again and then brushed my lips down along his jawline and back up to his ear.
“Thank you for today,” I whispered. “I needed it.”
“It’s not over. I’m taking you someplace special for dinner.”
“Oh,” I said, stiffening. “I should get home to change then.”
“No, not necessary. You’re fine . . . well, maybe overdressed.” He smiled.
I furrowed my brows. I wore a long-sleeve cotton shirt and jeans. How special can this place be? When we returned to the Cape, he didn’t take me home. We traveled on unfamiliar streets lined with royal palms and obnoxiously huge houses. I hadn’t been in this part of town, so I had no idea where we headed. We came to the end of one of these streets, and although the view was blocked, I knew the beach and the Gulf spread beyond the other side of the foliage lining the dead end. He pulled into a wide, private driveway leading to a large, concrete-and-glass structure overlooking the water.
“This looks fancy. You said I was overdressed,” I whispered when he cut the engine to the bike.
He chuckled as he dismounted. “This is my house, silly.”
My jaw dropped. He’d never brought me to his house; we’d never had any reason to come here. I’d imagined he lived in a small, bachelor-pad type of place, like where a twenty-year-old college kid would sleep and shower because he was never home for anything else.
The entire lower level appeared to be nothing but garage from the outside, with four full-size overhead doors. Tristan crossed the driveway and poked some buttons on a keypad by one of the doors. While it rose with a low rumble, the alarm of my sense started as a prickle on the back of my neck, alerting me to a dark presence. At the same time, Tristan froze, and his gaze swept the area. I swung off the bike to look around.
Evil! My sense sounded, the feeling coming from behind me. I spun around and started backing up as branches in the foliage moved. With a whoosh of passing air, I went from being at the edge of the driveway by the road to standing in the garage, Tristan’s arm around me.
And then the feeling disappeared faster than it had come.
“What was it?” I whispered.
Tristan’s eyes darted around again. “Probably the burglars that have been hitting the area lately.”
“Burglars?” I echoed as I peered at him out of the corner of my eye.
At that moment, footsteps tapped on concrete, and Owen came around the corner of Tristan’s house.
“It’s all good,” he said to Tristan with a nod. “Safe and sound. Hey, Alexis.”
Before I could return the greeting, he was around the corner of the driveway and out of sight. Confused, I looked up at Tristan.
“He was working on my security system. He’s a wizard with electronics. Did you know that?”
“Is he . . .” I began as I returned my attention to the end of the driveway, although Owen was already long gone.
“Is he what?”
“You know. One of us?”
“Like you and me? No.”
“So he’s not part of the Amadis?”
When he didn’t answer at first, I looked up at him.
“Most people are just people, Alexis.”
“Are there a lot of Amadis and Daemoni?” I persisted.
“Compared to Normans—normal humans—no. We’re pretty rare.”
“But they live among the . . . Normans?”
He shrugged. “Some, but not most. Don’t worry. You’re safe. What did I tell you?”
Yeah, yeah. You can kick their asses. Without waiting for my answer, he strode over to the bike to bring it into the garage, and I was utterly distracted by the view. I turned to watch as he rode the motorcycle through the door and took notice of the garage’s interior for the first time as he parked next to the crotch-rocket.
“Holy crap.” I snickered. “This is a little over-the-top, don’t you think?”
“I told you I like toys.” He laughed and closed the garage door while I walked around, admiring the “toys.”
One side of the garage housed a speedboat, a WaveRunner, and other water sports equipment. On the other side, besides the two motorcycles, were a big, metallic-blue pickup truck, a shiny black Mercedes convertible, and a hot red Ferrari Spider—which I only knew after caressing my hand over the shiny emblem.
“You don’t even use these . . . do you?” I’d never seen them before.
“Not so much. I prefer feeling the freedom on the bikes. They each have their purpose, though, and when I want them, they’re right here waiting. And they’re nice to look at.” He’d come up behind me and put his arms around me, pulling me close to him. He murmured in my ear, “Beautiful lines, shapely curves, a little bit of sass . . . kind of like you.”
Heat rose to my face in both embarrassment and excitement at his breath on my ear.  He brushed his lips down my neck. Goose bumps rose on my arms. Then he took my hand and led me upstairs to the rest of the house.
From the stairs, we came into a large, open room with floor-to-ceiling windows on the opposite wall, overlooking the Gulf of Mexico. Low sunlight streamed through the windows. The décor was sparse, looking more like the lobby of a business than a home. There was a sitting area in the east half, at the top of the stairs, that included glass end tables, a boxy, black leather couch, and a loveseat sitting on a white, shaggy rug. Various paintings hung on the walls, and an easel with a half-finished image stood at the window-wall. Long tables displaying what looked like dollhouses edged the western half of the room.
Tristan picked up an electronic gadget from one of the tables, and the screen glowed at his touch. He tapped it several times, and some lights came on in the house and music started playing through speakers in the ceilings.
“Another toy?” I asked with a raised eyebrow. He grinned.
“Come on, I’ll show you around before I start dinner.” He took my hand again and led me down a hallway off the living room.
The first room was an office with a large, chrome-and-glass desk, three computer screens, and two walls lined with glass shelves full of books. Calendars and various charts hung on a third wall and the fourth wall consisted of a large picture window facing the Gulf. An oversized, white suede chair with fat cushions and an ottoman squatted in front of the window, and I imagined curling up in the chair with a book, reading until I fell asleep.
“This is where I spend the majority of my time when I’m not with you,” Tristan said, and then he led me to another room, across the hall. “And this is where I am the rest of the time . . . unless I’m at the big gym.”
The makings of a home gym filled the room, complete with weight machines. A large, thin mat covered half the floor, where various sized punching bags hung from the ceiling along one edge of it. The walls were bare, except for a lone picture. I stepped closer to it to find a beautifully hand-drawn picture of me, framed and matted.
“Tristan?” I asked, not able to pull my eyes away to look at him.
“It’s a reminder of why I need to improve my self-control,” he explained quietly.
“You drew it?” I looked at him with awe.
He smiled sheepishly. “I started with a sketch when we were studying . . . well, you were studying. It was shortly after we met.”
“Wow. I never knew,” I breathed, not fully understanding the extent of his talent until now. I’d seen the cartoons he’d drawn during class, of course, and still had one tacked to my bulletin board above my desk. But this was no cartoon. He’d captured my expression perfectly in the photo-like drawing. “You’re so talented.”
“It’s easier when I have a beautiful subject,” he said with a grin meant to be cheesy. I rolled my eyes.
Also off the hallway were a bathroom and a laundry room. He then took me upstairs to the top level, which was nothing but a large master-suite loft looking over the living room. A huge—had to be bigger than a king size—platform bed faced the western wall of windows. I eyed the bed, with its black, satiny comforter and many pillows.
“You really need this big of a bed?” I teased.
“I hardly ever sleep in it anymore. It feels too big and empty. I prefer the chair in the office these days. But . . . I think it has potential.” He waggled his eyebrows and grinned mischievously. Butterflies fluttered in my stomach. “Maybe we’ll find out . . . some time. Right now, I need to start dinner.”
He quickly showed me the master bath, and I imagined the potential in there, too, with the big Jacuzzi tub and a shower the size of my bedroom. Back downstairs, he led me into the most amazing dream kitchen. The décor was a little cold for my style—mostly concrete, stainless steel, and glass. There were tons of cabinets and immense counter space, though, including an island in the middle and a bar at the western end.
“You’ve been holding out on me!” I slid my hands along the smooth countertops and gazed at the six-burner stove. “This looks like so much more fun than Mom’s tiny kitchen. We wouldn’t be bumping into each other all the time.”
He grinned. “I thought you might like it.”
We cooked together, while listening to music and drinking wine, making linguine with clam sauce and a side salad. After eating and cleaning up, he poured us some more wine and played with his little toy to change the music while I took a closer look at the houses—they were actually architectural models, complete with landscaping. Each was in a different style and in a different setting. I leaned over to study the intricate details he’d added to each one.
“I showed you mine. Will you show me yours?” Tristan said from behind me, and I whirled in shock. He laughed at my expression. “You’ve seen my creations, now. When do I get to see yours?”
Oh, my book. I circumvented the question by taking my glass from him, draining the wine, and rerouting the conversation to the models.
“These are truly incredible. They must have taken you forever.”
He shrugged. “I’ve done these since I moved here last summer. I’m still trying to figure out my dream home, I guess. I can’t decide which one I like best. I’m waiting to get some input from the person I’ll be sharing them with someday.”
He smiled seductively. Butterflies fluttered again, and my head went fuzzy. I never drank more than one glass of wine with Mom, so it didn’t take much. And, of course, Tristan had that effect on me all by himself, especially like now, when he walked up to me, put his hands on my shoulders and gazed into my eyes, the gold in his sparkling brightly. He leaned over and kissed my temple, his hands gliding down my back.
“So what do you think?” he murmured.
I couldn’t answer, his touch electrically stimulating my body, then finally, I giggled. “I think I’m in no frame of mind to be thinking.”
I put my arms around his neck and had to concentrate to keep his face in focus. I smiled, closed my eyes (that feels better), and tilted my face up for a kiss. He didn’t deliver. I opened my eyes reluctantly, and he stared at me with a funny expression. I thought it was concern, but didn’t know why.
“What’s the matter?” I asked, but it came out more like, “Wass da madder.”
“Are you drunk?”
I giggled again. “No, I don’t think so. I have a really good buzz, though.”
I sagged against him, still holding onto his neck. I kissed his chest through his shirt.
“Yeah . . . I think you’re drunk. I better take you home.”
“No! I don’ wunna go home.” I pulled myself up against him and kissed his neck and then put effort into speaking correctly. “I want to stay here with you. Be with you . . . maybe in that nice, big bed upstairs?”
“Yeah, I don’t think so. I’m taking you home.”
“Tristan, please?” I breathed. I pressed my body against his, pulling his head down closer and nuzzling my face against his neck. Then I stood on my toes and slid my lips along his jaw, and just as I reached his mouth, I lost my balance and would have fallen over if he hadn’t been holding me.
“Nope. Let’s go,” he said firmly, extricating himself from my arms, while still holding me upright.
“Please?” I pouted, trying to look at him through my eyelashes. I probably looked like a fool. He shook his head. “Why?”
“Because I won’t take advantage of you like this.”
“You wouldn’t be taking advantage of me. I promise.” I smiled, trying to be seductive as I pressed myself against him, thinking now was just as good of a time as any to say what I’d been feeling. “I lo⁠—”
His eyes sparked, and he cut me off by clamping his hand over my mouth. “No. Don’t say it now. I need to know you mean it. And as tempting as you are,” he slid a hand over my butt, “I will not do anything with you that I may regret.”
He gave me a playful squeeze, but the smile fell off my face, and unexpected tears pooled in my eyes. Okay, self, wine makes me emotional . . . and stupid. “You’d regret being with me?”
He rolled his eyes. “Yeah, you must be drunk if you think I’d regret that.”
“But that’s what you just said.”
He sighed, but his expression remained amused. “I’m not going to do something that I’d always have to wonder if you really wanted it or if it was the wine. Okay?”
I sighed. “No, it’s not okay.”
“I think you’ll get over it. Come on, I’m taking you home.” He took my hand and pulled gently.
I reluctantly followed him downstairs and naturally headed to the motorcycle.
“Oh, no. I don’t think you’re in any shape for that,” he said, pulling me over to the cars.
“Oooh, can we take the Ferrari? Let’s be obnoxious!”
He laughed. “No, that’s for going fast . . . very fast. You’re not in any condition for that either, and I’m not about to take the chance you’ll puke all over it.”
“I’m not that drunk, silly.” I giggled again as he held the Mercedes door open for me. “Can we put the top down? I love driving topless.”
He raised an eyebrow, and that brought me to tears with laughter as he lowered the car’s roof and pulled out of the garage. The cool December air blew on my face and sobered me quite a bit by the time we drove the two miles to my house.
“Sorry,” I said, as we headed inside. “I don’t think I should mix you and wine. It’s too much for my system.”
He gave me a squeeze. “I thought it was just you who intoxicates me.”
* * *
The following week flew by as we managed the Christmas rush at the bookstore, and Mom and I didn’t have much time to bake cakes and pies—one part of our family tradition. So we went over to Tristan’s house Christmas Eve to take advantage of his kitchen, and all three of us made one at the same time.
While the desserts baked in the double ovens, Mom stayed in the kitchen to clean up, giving Tristan and me some private time to exchange gifts. My stomach tightened with apprehension as I handed Tristan the box I’d taken my time to wrap. From the moment I finished creating his gift, I hadn’t stopped worrying about it.
He wanted to read my unfinished book, but I wasn’t nearly ready for anyone to read it, especially him. So I wrote him a poem about my feelings for him and had it framed with a picture of us. The poem came directly from my heart, so it was, admittedly, pretty sappy. I didn’t know if he’d like it or laugh at it. I sat on the couch next to him with my knees to my chest, tugging and twisting my hair as he opened and then read it. Oh my god, why did I give him such a stupid gift? What had I been thinking? My teeth cracked as my knee hit my chin from bouncing with anxiety.
Tristan finally looked up at me, and his eyes sparkled and . . . glistened. He bent over and kissed me on the cheek, murmuring, “It’s perfect. Thank you.”
I exhaled the biggest sigh ever and cupped my hand against his jaw. Now that I was absolutely positive, the words came easily. “I love you, Tristan.”
The grin he gave me stopped my heart, but the next kiss kicked it back into high gear.
After he pulled away, he held out a flat box. “Your turn.”
“I think I’d rather kiss you,” I said, pulling him back for another, but he broke it off again.
“I can’t wait a second longer for you to open this.”
My hands trembled as I took the gift with the expensive looking wrapping paper and opened it. I sucked in my breath.
“It’s exquisite,” I breathed. I couldn’t take my eyes off it. “But I can’t accept this. You cheated!”
Inside the box lay a silver chain with a beautiful pendant—two spaghetti-thick strands of silver twisted together and shaped into a hoop with a triangular ruby dangling in the center. I’d never seen anything like it. When I looked up at him, his expression was pained, and guilt stabbed my heart. Way to go, dumbass.
“I’m so sorry!” I threw myself into his lap, looped my arms around his neck, and gazed directly into his eyes. “I absolutely love it. And, even though you broke the rules, I’ll keep it forever.”
His Adam’s apple bobbed as he swallowed. “But I didn’t break the rules. The chain is new, but I designed and made the pendant myself.”
I looked at the pendant and back at him. “You designed this?”
“Just for you. It’s symbolic.” He lowered his voice. “Two lives intertwined around one love.”
“Oh. Wow.” I studied the pendant through moist eyes. I treasured it more than anything I’d ever owned. I turned and lifted my hair. “Put it on me. I’m never taking it off.”
He clasped the chain and kissed my neck before I dropped my hair.
“Tristan . . . ?” Mom asked from the doorway to the kitchen, her voice mixed with concern and wonder as she eyed the pendant against my chest. “Is that what I think it is?”
“Yes.”
I looked at him questioningly.
“The stone is unique and very precious,” he explained.
“Does it mean anything?” I asked. “Besides the symbolism?”
“It’s the closest I can come to giving you a piece of my heart.” He shrugged it off, but his eyes told me it meant a lot.
“Thank you,” I whispered, fingering the ruby. It felt strangely warm to the touch. “I’ll wear it forever.”
“Thank you for your love,” he said. “I’ll keep it forever.”
“I might let you have it that long,” I teased.
He pulled me against his chest. “You don’t have a choice because I’ll never let it go. And I’m much stronger than you.”
* * *
After delivering the pies and cakes to a homeless shelter and nursing homes Christmas morning, we drove around, scoping out opportunities for random acts of kindness, another tradition Mom and I had kept since I was little. We helped a lady who’d been trying to juggle gifts and herd four young kids into a car, and once we succeeded, Tristan slipped her something as we left. She stared after us, her mouth hanging open with shock. He did the same thing each time we helped someone. I didn’t ask about it because that was the point of the day, but I knew when we stopped at a convenience store.
We’d just bought drinks, and the man behind us argued with the clerk about why his credit card didn’t work at the pump. He carried on about how he needed to get to Miami to see his kids for Christmas. Tristan tucked something into my hand, nodded at the man, and strode out of the store. I looked at the folded one-hundred-dollar bill in my hand, smiled, and stepped over to the man at the counter.
“Here, go see your kids,” I whispered. I pressed the bill into his palm and hurried out the door before he could stop me.
And nearly collided into a tiny woman with severely creased skin, a raised mole on her chin with several strands of hair sticking out of it, and half of her teeth, bared as she smiled at me. At least, I thought it was a smile. But she didn’t look up at me—she gazed intently at my necklace.
“Keep that close, child,” she said, her bent finger lifting to point at it. “To lose it would be devastating to all.”
She mumbled more that I couldn’t understand, but sounded like something about breaking his heart. I wrapped my fingers around the pendant, and it warmed again at my touch. I opened my mouth, but the man came running out of the store and Mom’s horn blared at the same time.
“I have to go.” I hurried away for the car.
“Wait! I can’t take this,” the man called after me.
As soon as I slid into the backseat, Mom hit the gas.
“Did you give a bill to that old woman?” I asked Tristan. He looked over his shoulder at me from the passenger seat.
“What old woman?”
I turned to look through the back window. She was gone. Only the man and the store clerk stood outside, gawking at us. When I turned back around, I caught Mom and Tristan exchanging a glance.
“Sorry, love,” he said. “I didn’t see her.”
“Me neither,” Mom added.
I picked up my pendant again and rubbed my thumb over the stone. “I think she warned me about breaking your heart.”
“Then I’m sorry I missed her. I think I love her already,” he joked.
He and Mom shrugged the old woman off, and by the end of the day, she became a memory. The pendant, however, I would cherish forever. It was special, and it was mine. Just like the man who’d given it to me.
Chapter 16
CHAPTER 16
As December slipped into January and January disappeared into February, I spent as much time as I could writing . . . when I wasn’t in class or with Tristan. I was surprised at how easily most of the story came to me, almost as though it wrote itself and I was just a tool. My Aikido lessons didn’t go quite as well—I struggled with anything but the most basic moves—but I kept with them, if anything, because even as bad as I was, we still had fun together. And Tristan said it was good practice for him and his patience.
Then came Valentine’s Day and my birthday five days later, and both were miserable. I caught a horrible cold that fell into my chest and became bronchitis. I felt even worse because Tristan had planned a weekend in Orlando for my birthday that included seeing one of our favorite bands in concert. Instead, he made me homemade soup, and we watched my favorite movies.
“You probably shouldn’t be here,” I said to him my first miserable night, my voice hoarse and nasally.
“It’s Valentine’s. Of course I want to be with my love.” He sat on my bed with me curled in his arms.
“You really don’t want to catch this, though.” A fit of coughing emphasized my point.
“I don’t get sick,” he said. “I didn’t think you could, either.”
I started to answer, but coughing took over again. My head and shoulders and chest—oh, hell, my whole body—ached from the jostling.
“I guess my body’s not that strong,” I finally said. “My skin can heal, but according to Sophia, my internal organs aren’t as powerful. I’ll get over it quicker than most, but I still get sick.”
Another fit of coughing took over before I could finish.
“I’m still somewhat normal, in other words,” I croaked.
“That explains how the wine made you drunk,” he said.
“You don’t get drunk?”
Tristan shook his head.
“Huh. I wonder if Sophia can.”
“Nope,” she called from the kitchen. Her sense of hearing was unbelievable. If I didn’t feel so bad, I would have gotten up and closed the door, but it wasn’t like I was up to needing privacy tonight.
Tristan looked at me as though considering me in a whole different light. “What about your bones?”
“We don’t know. That cut last fall was the worst I’ve ever been hurt. I’ve never broken a bone, so we don’t know if they’ll heal on their own or not.”
“Hmm . . . you’re more fragile than I realized,” Tristan said. I looked at his face, trying to understand the grim tone. “I must be extra careful with you from now on.”
The next week, I swore he pulled back even more than usual during my Aikido lessons, and although he blamed the cooler weather, he always showed up in the Mercedes instead of on the motorcycle if I was going anywhere with him.
I was mostly disappointed but a little bit relieved that he had to cancel the plans for Orlando. A weekend away, just the two of us, would likely take us to the next level . . . we’d have sex, in other words. I’d been thinking about it a lot. Our relationship was serious enough for this to become a hot topic anytime now. In fact, in normal circumstances, we’d be way overdue, but neither of us was normal.
I’d never really planned my first time—though I’d often wondered, when I was younger, if I’d ever have a first time—so I had not specifically decided to keep my virginity until I was married. In fact, I wasn’t sure if I thought that was fair to either party. Mom had repeatedly lectured me about how it was the most important gift I could ever give and I could only give it once, “So you make it count.” I thought I’d know when the right person and right time came along, whether it was before marriage or on my wedding day. Now I was torn.
The right person had come along, but I hadn’t yet figured out the right time. Whenever we’d get passionate, my body would scream to continue. But my mind—and Tristan’s self-control—always won the battle against hormones. I began to think he was a saint. Of course, he had his own issues to deal with, like trying not to kill me.
So not until mid-March did sex even become a discussion between the two of us. It was a memorable night—for more than one reason—at the end of spring break, which I had used to finally finish the book. I only had a first draft, but the story was finally out of my head. Tristan took me out on his boat and then to his place so he could make me a celebratory dinner. But that had only been a cover story.
After dinner, we went out to the beach to watch the sunset. Unlike the beach by Mom’s cottage, this one was empty. Beaches were generally public property, but people assumed those bordering the big houses were private. Tristan spread a blanket out for us, and I sat down facing the water. He usually sat behind me so I could lean against him, but this time he kneeled in front of me, his back to the sunset.
“You’re, uh, facing the wrong way,” I pointed out the obvious.
“I prefer this view,” he said with a stunning smile. It was cheesy, but I fell for it anyway and grinned sappily at him. His smile faded. “Can I ask you a question?”
“Sure . . . you can always ask.”
He ignored my old answer. “How do you see the rest of your life?”
“Oh. Huh.” He caught me off guard.
We hadn’t discussed this since that night I learned there was more in store for my life than I ever realized. The night I learned I could possibly have true love, but nothing else about my future would go as planned. No settled family life in a comfortable home full of normal kids who played sports or music or danced and had lots of friends who came to our house to play. Instead, I had a future that may or may not include writing, may or may not include love, and may or may not include children . . . but would definitely encompass moving frequently, possibly running from danger, and whatever else would happen after the Ang’dora.
“Well, that’s a long time you’re talking about. You mean my immediate future or later, after . . . ?”
“Both. The rest of your life.”
“Hmm . . . well, I have no idea what it’ll be like after, unless it’s just more of the same, since that’s how Sophia’s life is. I’d still like to write. And I definitely still want real, soul-mate love and a family . . . if that’s possible.”
“What if I can make it possible? Can you see me in the rest of your life?”
I pondered this for a moment—not that I hadn’t already given it a lot of thought. But now I had to give a real answer, outside my own head. And I still came to the same conclusion. Although I didn’t know what being with anyone else was like, I couldn’t imagine feeling stronger love for another man. It simply wasn’t possible. Our connection was too deep. Just who we were told me we were meant to be together.
“I definitely want you to be in it.” I searched his face, wondering why he brought this up now. His eyes shimmered, and a smile played on his lips. “I said ‘soul-mate love,’ and I believe you are my soul mate.”
“And I know you are mine.” He took a deep breath. “So, Alexis Katerina Ames . . . will you do me the honor of allowing me to spend the rest of my life with you? Will you marry me?”
He held his hand out and opened a small box to reveal a ring. The air caught in my throat, and my heart stopped beating. I couldn’t see the ring clearly as tears welled. I looked at him instead, his eyes serious and pleading. So loving. So damn beautiful.
I froze. He did not . . . ? Oh, yes, he did!
“Erp . . . ” The sound that came out sounded ridiculous as I finally managed a breath. Speak, stupid, or he’ll take it the wrong way. “Um . . . yes . . . of course . . . Yes, Tristan Knight, I would love to spend the rest of my life with you.”
“Thank you,” he breathed with relief. Did he expect any other answer? He slid the ring on my finger, and before I could get a good look at it, he took my face in his hands and captured my mouth with his.
The kiss quickly grew with a new kind of passion full of promise for the future. We fell back on the blanket, our mouths moving with fervor. His hand trailed an electric path over my neck, across my collarbone, and down my side. His fingers pressed into my waist, and my hands gripped his thick shoulders as our lips and tongues continued their dance. Then his mouth left mine to travel slowly down to my throat, where it lingered, while his hand glided up the front of my stomach and over my breast. My skin instantly tightened, and a moan stole from my throat. He gently cupped and caressed my breast, moving his lips slowly over my skin to the opening in my blouse, slipping his tongue under it. One of my hands clawed at his back while the other twisted in his hair.
With deft fingers, he undid my two top buttons, enough to expose my chest, and kissed around the tops of my bra on both breasts. He traced the birthmark—twisted lines of slightly lighter pigment—over my left breast with his fingertip, then his lips, his tongue darting out and swirling over my skin. My breasts swelled so large, I thought they’d burst out of my bra, aching for his touch. I tugged at the bottom of his shirt, and he broke away to pull it over his head as I undid the last buttons of my blouse, letting it fall open. His hooded gaze surveyed me for a moment, the sensation tangible, and his tongue swept over his bottom lip. I bit my own as my back arched toward him.
He finally lowered his body down, hot and hard against me, and his length pressed into my hip and belly, making me burn so hot inside, I was sure he could feel the heat through his jeans. His lips found mine again, and his hand slipped between us and to my breast. His fingers slid under my bra and grazed my hardened nipple. Electricity stimulated every nerve, and I couldn’t control the moan or the spasm as my pelvis jerked and pressed against his erection.
And that was the breaking point.
He groaned and pounded his fist into the sand next to me. He sat up on his knees over me, and I started to reach up to touch his bare chest and sculpted stomach. He was so beautiful, so perfect. Except his eyes. Fire burned within them. I dropped my hand. He stood up and strode away without a word. I lay there, drawing ragged breaths, staring at the darkening sky. My heart raced, and the blood throbbed in delicate places. After several minutes, I finally buttoned my blouse with trembling fingers and sat up. The sky had darkened enough that I couldn’t see him anywhere. I picked up the blanket and his shirt and headed inside.
Tristan wasn’t in there, so I sat on a kitchen chair and waited. His house wasn’t quite home to me, not like Mom’s cozy cottage. The more time I spent with him and the more time we spent at his house, though, the more it had grown on me. Or maybe I was growing into it. The cottage was small and warm and soft, like childhood. Tristan’s house was large and new and angular—modern and sophisticated. As the newly placed ring on my finger indicated, I had grown up and would soon be starting a new life with Tristan. This house would become my home.
I studied the stunning ring he’d slid on my finger. The main diamond was square and large but not gaudy, and it was set with marquis diamonds and blue sapphires on each side. The band was either white gold or platinum—knowing Tristan, it had to be platinum—with an unusual design encasing the large diamond. I twisted my hand, letting the light hit the diamonds and create tiny rainbows dancing around me, when he finally walked in.
“I’m sorry.” He dropped to his knees in front of me, his face pained and his eyes sad. I stroked his cheek with my fingertips.
“You can’t help it.”
He hung his head. “I should be able to. What kind of boyfriend or husband can I be for you?”
I put my hands on his shoulders, leaned over, and whispered in his ear. “I’m not ready yet anyway. You’ll be fine when the time is right. And that’s when we’ll get married.”
He looked at me with deep appreciation. “I don’t deserve you. And you certainly don’t deserve me.”
I frowned. “Don’t talk like that. It’s just an obstacle we’ll eventually get over.”
Disbelief overcame his face, and he sprang up and strode around the room, his jaw muscle popping.
“Just an obstacle?” he bellowed as he turned on me. “Do you realize what I can do to you?”
With hardly any force, just a jerk of his forearm, his fist hit the wall and pieces of concrete fell to the floor, leaving a divot with cracks spreading from it. I froze in my chair. He glared at me with sparks in his eyes.
“I’m under control right now, Alexis, and that’s what I do without meaning to. Do you have any idea what kind of power I have? And you . . .” He growled and threw his hands angrily in the air. The kitchen table next to me—ten feet from him—rose off the floor, and when he dropped his hands, it crashed to the ground. The wooden legs broke into pieces under the weight of the marble top. “You weren’t supposed to be so damn fragile. I thought you’d be unbreakable, but you’re not. And if I lost control . . . imagine what I could do to you!”
I shook my head. “But you wouldn’t. You couldn’t!”
In a flash, he stood in front of me, looking down his nose at me. Power emanated in waves from his body, but I didn’t shrink away. His jaw clenched, and he ground out, “Don’t underestimate the force that lies beneath.”
“And you don’t underestimate the power of our love!” I jumped up on the chair and glared into his eyes while jabbing a finger into his face. “You love me! You know our love is more powerful than anything else.”
His face twisted, and his voice rose. “Don’t you get it? It’s not something I would do intentionally. But if I ever lost control and hurt you, I wouldn’t be able to live with myself.”
“I can heal!”
His eyes narrowed. “You don’t know that. What if I crush your bones? Crack your skull?”
“I’ll be fine. And so will you.”
“And if I kill you?” he snarled.
“Tristan, stop it! You will not kill me. I won’t let you do that to yourself!” I pounded my fists on his chest. It was hard as rock.
His hand twitched, and the marble top of the kitchen table he’d just broken lifted from the floor. It hovered threateningly in the air near me. I knew he wouldn’t do anything to me, but it aggravated me how he held it there.
“And what are you going to do about it?” he sneered.
“WHATEVER I NEED TO DO TO PROTECT US!” I grabbed the marble slab with both hands and hurled it across the room. It hit the concrete wall with a deafening crack and crashed loudly to the floor. The noise echoed off the walls, sounding like gunshots.
Followed by silence.
We both stared at it for at least a minute, too shocked to remember our anger.
“Did you just . . . ?” He looked from the wall to me and back to the wall in amazement.
I tilted my head, still staring at the marble slab. “Um . . . yeah . . . I just did.”
“You know that slab weighs at least three hundred pounds?” I felt him staring at me.
“Really? Huh.” I looked at him. “Well, someone had to put a stop to your temper tantrum.”
The corner of his mouth lifted. “I’m sorry. I wanted you to know the reality of our situation, but I didn’t mean to scare you.”
“You didn’t scare me, you idiot, you just really pissed me off. My whole point is I’m not afraid of you because I trust that we will win together. But . . .” I narrowed my eyes and tilted my head, a smile teasing my lips. “. . . since I just agreed to marry you, I think I should know if you’re always going to act like a broody teenager and throw an angsty fit every time you get mad at yourself.”
He lifted an eyebrow, the gold dancing in his eyes as his lips pressed into a guilty smile.
“You’re right. I’m sorry.”
He grabbed me in a hug, pulling me off the chair, and buried his face in my hair. I kissed his cheek, and he turned his head to meet my lips with his. We started to get into it again when he had to pull back in frustration. There was no fire in his eyes; he wasn’t losing control. But we both knew we couldn’t carry on. No make-up sex tonight.
“One of these days, we will make love,” he promised.
“I know.” I smiled. “Hey, we get to go a little more each time, you know. We’ll get there. I have faith in you. Maybe by our wedding night . . .”
“We’re not getting married until I can be a real husband to you.”
“That sounds like a good deal for us both. Because I know by our wedding night, I will be ready. And it will be our wedding present to each other.” My heart warmed at the thought.
“Then it’s a deal.” He grinned, too.
I looked at the ring on my finger, giddy at its meaning. “I love my ring.”
“I designed it.”
“I thought so. It’s perfect.” I threw my arms around him. “Thank you for it.”
“Thank you for taking it and all that comes with it.” He pressed his lips to my temple, then pulled away. “Shall I take you home?”
“You want help cleaning up first?”
We looked around at the destruction.
“I don’t think there’s much you can help with, unless you can pick up that marble slab again.” He chuckled.
“Only if you make me mad again.” I made a stupid face and growled, “You won’t like me when I’m angry.”
He laughed, but then sobered quickly. “You know, you do scare me.”
My brow shot up.
“I think I may have finally met my match.”
“What are you talking about?” I asked with bewilderment.
“You have no idea, but you’re going to be very powerful. I don’t know if I’ll be able to handle you, after the Ang’dora.” Then he smiled. “But you’ll make a kickass Amadis. And I was right, calling you ma lykita.”
“Are you ever going to tell me what that means?”
He thought for a long moment and surprised me when he said, “It’s short for my little lykora.”
“Little . . . what?”
“Lykora. Sophia never told you the legend of the lykora?”
“Sophia doesn’t tell me anything, remember?”
“Not even stories and myths?”
“No, that’s more my thing.” I wracked my brain for all the fantastical and supernatural creatures I knew about, but shook my head. “I’ve got nothing.”
“Well, supposedly it’s a mythical creature, it’s so rare, but I’ve seen one myself. It’s one of the most beautiful creatures I’ve ever seen.”
“I thought you said it’s a legend.”
“That’s what everyone thinks. What Sophia would have told you. It’s really incredible. It looks like a snow-white wolf, but with black stripes like a tiger. And it has wings—they’re supposed to be like angel wings.”
I cocked an eyebrow with skepticism. “And why would you call me that?”
His grin grew, his eyes sparkling as he held out his hand. “Because a lykora is small enough to fit in my hand. But it is fiercely protective and very loyal, so when it feels a loved one is in danger, it grows as large as it needs to be and protects.”
I laughed. “You’re making it up.”
“You don’t have to believe me,” he said with a shrug, “but it’s still what you are.”
A few minutes later we pulled into Mom’s driveway, and apprehension felt like a rock in my stomach. I wasn’t sure how she’d react. After everything came out in the open and then Tristan spent so much time with us, she had finally accepted him as a key part of my life. I thought she might almost love him like a son. But I wasn’t positive, and I didn’t know if she’d be happy with my being engaged already, especially at nineteen. I sat on the motorcycle and stared at the lit-up cottage.
“Relax, my love,” Tristan said. “She already knows.”
“She does?”
He shrugged. “I had to discuss it with her first. There’s all that other stuff that can get in the way.”
“Oh, yeah. We’re kind of like a really twisted Romeo and Juliet, huh?”
“I’ve thought about that. But there’s a big difference. Your family supports us.”
Mom waited expectantly, already in the foyer when we opened the door.
“So . . . can I see?” she asked, skipping any preliminaries. I held my left hand out for her. She inhaled sharply. “Nice job, Tristan. I’m impressed.”
He grinned.
She lifted her eyes to lock onto mine. “You will finish this book first. And you will finish college.”
“I’ll definitely finish the book first. And I’ll finish college, but probably not before we get married.” I glanced at Tristan, and I knew he was also thinking about our deal because he winked at me.
* * *
I’d never imagined it possible to be so happy. It lasted about a month. Then the subjects of sex and trust came up again, bringing us to a devastating turning point. We both seemed to have a blockage with Tristan seeing me naked. I lay on his boxy leather couch in just my bra and panties, while he paced the semi-dark room. He wasn’t trying to regain control—the fire was already gone. Something else was wrong. I pushed him off this time as he started to unhook my bra. I felt a loss of control, and something deep inside hit the panic button. I sat up and pulled my shirt and shorts on.
He finally came over and knelt in front of me, looking into my eyes.
“I was getting close, but I think that was you this time,” he said quietly.
“I know,” I admitted.
“You don’t trust me nearly as much as you think you do,” he said flatly, as if it was fact.
I looked up at him in surprise. “No, Tristan, that’s not it. I know you won’t hurt me.”
“That’s not what I mean. You still have a shell, even for me.”
“What do you mean?” I thought we’d overcome that. I’d opened myself up and let him in. He knew more about me than anyone, even my own mother . . . and, apparently, more than I knew myself . . . .
“You let me in to a certain point, but you’re still protecting your most vulnerable areas. Without trust, what do we have here?”
I knew the confusion showed in my eyes as I stared into his.
“You won’t let me read your book,” he pointed out.
“If it gets published, I don’t have a choice. You can just go buy it.” I tried to smile. He remained serious, and my smile disappeared.
“Don’t you love me?”
“Of course! More than anything.”
“But not enough to share something so important to you.”
I sighed. How’d we get on the subject of my book? “You wouldn’t even like it.”
“And you’re making that decision for me?”
“It’s about a witch and a werewolf and their unlikely romance and magic and myths—the stuff you laugh at me about.”
“I don’t laugh at you.” He scowled. “I just don’t understand your fascination with them.”
“And I don’t understand your fascination with numbers and angles and the lines of a building.”
“But you like the finished product.” He gestured toward the house models. “I would like to see your finished product.”
I sighed again. He had a point. “It’s not even a finished product. It’s just a draft. It needs revisions, holes in the plot need filling . . .”
“I don’t care. It’s important to you, so it’s important to me. Why can’t you share it? Why can’t you trust me with it?” He studied my face, his eyes filled with sadness. “Why can’t you share yourself? Even if I’m not there yet, I thought you would want to be with me by now. But you don’t.”
The pain and rejection in his voice felt like daggers in my heart.
“Tristan, we both need more time. We’ll get there.”
“But why, Alexis? Why do you need more time?”
“I don’t know,” I whispered honestly.
“I do know. You’re still protecting yourself, protecting those most personal parts. You won’t let me read your book. You stop us from being intimate. I don’t want to pressure you, but I’m trying to understand why there’s still this layer between us. Why can’t you give yourself fully to me yet?”
I sighed sadly, leaned over, and pressed my forehead to my knees.
“You still don’t trust me,” he answered himself.
The words burned my ears and tears stung my eyes as I realized he was right. I was willing to give him the rest of my life, but I couldn’t give him all of me.
“Tristan . . .” I mumbled into my thighs.
He sighed heavily, sadly. “You don’t need to say anything, Alexis. I get it. You love me . . . just not completely.”
I sat up and saw the pain written all over his face. My throat swelled, and my heart plummeted.
“Tristan, please,” I whispered. “I do love you, more than . . .”
“Just stop, Alexis. I know you love me. But stop lying to us both about how much. Don’t even say it until you can trust me with everything. Because that’s what this is about—not sex, not books, not anything but you and your trust in me. Without that, what do we have here? I might be new to this thing called love, but I can tell you one thing: what you feel is not the same love I have for you.”
He stood up and strode over to the wall of windows, staring out at the darkness spanning to the horizon. I leaned back over my thighs and silently cried into them.
“Do you want your ring back?” I eventually asked, choking on the words.
He was on his knees in front of me in a flash.
“Is that what you want?” His voice cracked with pain on the last word.
“No!”
He cupped the side of my face in his hand. “Then it is yours always, just as my heart is. I just hope, one day, I will have yours . . . all of it.”
Chapter 17
CHAPTER 17
After that critical night, our relationship felt fragile and brittle, as if it would shatter from the least bit of pressure. We spent time with each other every day, but not as much and conversation felt superficial, sometimes even forced. Sex wasn’t even an issue because we didn’t even try. I missed the emotional and physical closeness and berated myself for not letting him completely in, but I didn’t know what to do to knock that wall down. I questioned how much I did love him and if it would ever be enough to fully trust him. If I was even capable of loving that much.
I thought maybe my self-image was the problem, and I fantasized about the Ang’dora, hoping I’d become as gorgeous as Mom. And a better match for Tristan.
“Mom, when will the Ang’dora happen?” I asked one night, putting my textbook to the side. I’d apparently lost my penchant for being alone and gravitated to the living room to study while Mom read on the nights Tristan didn’t come over. And there had been a lot of those nights recently. I could feel him pulling away out of pain, and I couldn’t seem to pull him back.
She shrugged and put her own book down. “It’s been different for all of us. It seems we must experience a certain amount of real humanity. We haven’t been able to pinpoint a specific cause-effect relationship, so it’s difficult to say when or what will do it.”
“When did it happen for you?”
Her eyes glassed over for a moment, whether from nostalgia or from trying to decide what she could tell me, I didn’t know. “I was thirty-four, but I was the youngest ever. I was also the only one to have a baby after the Ang’dora. Besides me, the ages have ranged from thirty-eight to fifty-something. Most were somewhere in their forties.”
“I’ll get that old first?” I hadn’t been prepared for that. Tristan said he simply stopped aging in his early twenties, so I thought it was similar for us. “Wait . . . I have to wait that long to know anything?”
Mom’s lips pursed together. “I’m sorry, honey.”
I groaned. “How could you stand it?”
Her shoulder lifted in a shrug. “I didn’t have to. I didn’t even know anything was different about me until my mother came to find me when the Ang’dora started. I hadn’t seen her in seventeen years, and that was the bomb she dropped on me. That’s why she had to leave in the first place, though, for her own Ang’dora, and then she had to stay away to keep me from knowing about it. None of us knew anything, except you. We just lived normal lives until then.”
I opened my mouth to protest how unfair it was, but then I thought about living that many years as a somewhat normal human, which meant there was a good chance I could still have the settled life I sought, at least for a while. Except I would get old and Tristan would not. I knew there would be some difference—Mom looked older than Tristan—but I’d never expected I would be near forty . . . or older.
I sighed sadly. “I hoped it would be sooner.”
“I wish I could help, but we really don’t know. All I really know is we have each experienced true love first. Real love, like what you and Tristan have. So who knows with you? You’re quite different than the rest of us, anyway.”
“Will I be as beautiful as you and Tristan?”
Her eyes lit up. “You will be splendid. Ours is an inner beauty that radiates outward. It is part of who we are. And you have so much love, hope, and faith within you already—you will outshine all of us.”
I figured that’s what all Amadis moms told their daughters, because I surely didn’t feel much love, hope, and faith. In fact, they seemed to be buried under despair and distrust . . . mostly distrust of myself.
“As for Tristan,” Mom continued, “he was made to be exceedingly attractive, another tool in his toolbox—or bait in his tackle box would be more accurate. I do have to say, though, his outer beauty has improved since the first time I met him, and, I admit, even more over the last several months.”
I thought I was the only one who noticed. Great. He was getting even more attractive, and I was still plain me. And I would be for freaking ever. Or until I was forty. Same difference.
* * *
The night following my last final exam, Tristan and I met some of my classmates at Mario’s to celebrate surviving the semester. Carlie from communications had been in one of my spring classes, too, and, since they were coming to the Cape, she’d invited us to join her, her roommate, another friend, and a couple of guys from our class. Neither Tristan nor I really wanted to be there, but it was something to do to avoid being alone.
Not particularly enjoying the conversation, I slipped into observation mode. Carlie’s roommate and friend were a lot like her—pretty in an all-American, girl-next-door kind of way. I noticed they were quite flirtatious with Tristan, and for someone who didn’t want to be there, he was exceptionally warm toward them.
After seeing the engagement ring on my finger, Carlie had mentioned once that maybe she’d been wrong about Tristan. I wondered now if she’d noticed what Mom and I had about him changing and decided he wasn’t so scary after all. She’d been right in the beginning that there was a dangerous side to him, but . . . she missed the part of how exceptionally loving and generous he was, too. He was an unbelievably rare and beautiful creature, inside and out, and I was doing a pretty good job of completely blowing it with him. I sighed.
His head snapped up, and he looked at me with an odd expression, then his eyes darted to something behind me. I couldn’t tell if anger or interest flickered in his eyes as they narrowed. He pursed his lips, then went back to the conversation with the girls. I was so used to being the center of his attention, I even noticed how he hadn’t looked back at me, but focused immediately and directly on Carlie and her friends.
Trying not to be too obvious, I snuck a peak over my shoulder to see what caught his attention. Mostly men lined the bar—except for one leather-clad, long-legged female who took a seat at the end closest to the door. Her long hair was almost as white as the silk, low-cut blouse she wore. Her skin was nearly as pale, smooth as a porcelain doll. The black leather mini-skirt and knee-high boots contrasted starkly with the rest of her. She was absolutely gorgeous. All the men at the bar agreed—they stared at her with their mouths hanging open.
I sighed again. Yep, I’m really blowing it.
My self-esteem plummeted right through my feet and into the floor. I bit my lip and stared at my lap, my right hand turning the engagement ring on my finger round and round. How can he love me when he can have that? Why would he want to be with me? I definitely don’t deserve him.
Disgusted with my mopey self, I mumbled something about needing to get home, nearly knocked my chair over as I hurriedly stood up, and made a beeline for the door. I didn’t even wait to see if Tristan followed. I was close enough to walk home and almost welcomed the idea. As I passed the bar, though, a rough-looking man stepped away from it, directly in my path.
Evil! Stay away! Bad! Danger! Evil!
“They’re cute,” he said, nodding at Carlie and her friends, “but you, lassie, you’re a pistol. There’s fire in your eyes.”
My alarms sounded loudly but I stood frozen in place, staring at the man in astonishment. He might have been attractive at some point in his life, but his face was rough, weathered, threatening. He looked like an ugly, overgrown leprechaun.
What are you doing? Run now! Evil!
I inhaled sharply—the smells of booze, cigarettes, rotten meat, and strangely, sweet citrus poured off him—and eyed the path to the door. As soon as I shifted toward an opening, he shifted that way, too, grinning maliciously, exposing crooked, yellow teeth. Not a leprechaun. An ogre.
“Where ya goin’, lassie?” he asked with an Irish accent. “I just got here. Don’t leave already. Lemme buy ya⁠—”
Someone grabbed my left hand from behind me and pulled me back. My heart jumped as the thought he had an accomplice flashed through my mind, but Tristan stepped in front of me, holding my hand at the small of his back. He stared angrily at the vulgar man, stopping him in midsentence. I was pretty sure Tristan couldn’t kill with just a look, but if he could, this man would have dropped to the floor dead.
“Ah, Seth,” the man said. They glared at each other, and then the ogre nodded at me. “This one yours, eh? ’Bout time ya took advantage of what ya got. Nice catch.”
I looked at Tristan, confused. The ogre acted like he knew him.
“Back off,” Tristan growled.
“Ah, come now, I was just having a little fun. Got your name on her, eh?”
“I don’t even know her. Just leave her alone.” He squeezed my hand, I thought to send me a message. I took it to mean to go along with it or keep my mouth shut. I did both.
“Ah, just a play toy, then?” The fiend sneered. “Why don’t ya share?”
“I said to back off!” Tristan took a half step forward.
The ogre laughed throatily. “I think we need to have a little visit. It’s been a while.”
“Not here. My place.”
“Ha! Ya think I’m stupid? Nah. We stay in public, where there’s witnesses. O’Shea’s, by the beach.” The ogre tossed back the amber-colored booze the bartender had just set down, threw money on the bar, and started for the door before we even moved. He glanced over his shoulder. “And don’t even think about letting her go. Bring the lass.”
“Who is that?” I asked once the ogre left.
“Shh . . . he can still hear us,” he whispered.
“Hey, Tristan and Alexis, you two still leaving or did you change your minds?” Carlie asked from behind us.
Tristan swore under his breath, then said, “We have to go.”
He pulled me toward the door, not letting go of my hand. I followed him to the car in silence, nearly jogging through the rain to keep up, narrowly avoiding big puddles from the day’s downpours.
“Now?” I asked once we were in the car. He nodded. “So, who is he? He’s wretched!”
“Yes, that he is.” He stared forward out the windshield, his jaw muscle twitching as his teeth clenched. “Give me your ring.”
I instinctively hid my hand far away from him and stared at him wide-eyed. He changed his mind? I already blew it?
He looked at me, and his face softened, as did his voice. “Just for now, my love. He can’t see it. They can’t know, remember?”
“Who?”
“Who do you think?”
As I realized what he meant, terror overcame me. My voice trembled. “Why can’t you take me home?”
“Because he’ll follow me, and I’ll lead them right to you and Sophia.” The anger had returned, but he stroked my face gently. “Don’t worry. I won’t let anything happen to you. Don’t forget who I am. There’s a reason he doesn’t want to be alone with me.”
He grinned, but not with humor. In fact, it was spine-tingling.
I pulled my ring off and reluctantly handed it to him, my hand shaking. He stuffed it in his jeans pocket, reached over and tucked my necklace under my shirt, and then drove us to O’Shea’s, an Irish pub by the beach. He took out his cell phone and dialed a number as he drove.
“Ian’s in town . . . Headed to O’Shea’s . . . Yeah, she’s with me . . . I know, but I don’t have a choice. I can’t take her home with him on my tail . . .  It’s not necessary . . . I’ll bring her home as soon as it’s safe.” He clapped the phone shut.
“Who was that?”
“Sophia. She needed to be warned.”
I panicked. “She’s not coming, is she?”
“I don’t know. She really needs to stay away for both of you.”
“He’s a . . . a Daemoni?” I asked, nearly choking on the word.
He nodded. “He is now. Wasn’t always. Just as Sophia brought me to the Amadis, the Daemoni are occasionally successful in bringing your people to their side.”
“Oh,” I breathed. “Why did he call you ‘Seth’?”
His face twisted in the light from the dash. “That was my Daemoni name. They refuse to use the name Tristan.”
I reached out for his hand, needing to hold him, at least some part of him.
“Listen . . . He’ll probably figure it out—your looks give it away, if nothing else—but we need to try to not let him know who you are. And he definitely can’t know about . . . us.” He glanced at me. “Remember what I told you about my weakness?”
I nodded. Me.
“I’ll probably have to say things I don’t want to . . . just remember, it’s just as hard for me to say as it is for you to hear. Remember, too, deception is his most powerful weapon. Don’t believe any of it, okay?”
I swallowed hard and nodded. We turned into O’Shea’s parking lot.
His voice softened to nearly a whisper. “I love you more than life, Alexis. Always remember that.”
“I love you, too, Tristan. Please believe that,” I whispered. He squeezed my hand and nodded.
“He can hear us now.” We pulled into a parking space, and a motorcycle parked next to us. The rain apparently didn’t bother the ogre.
Keeping his own body between mine and Ian’s, Tristan gently pushed me in front of him, as Ian followed us into the pub. I’d never been inside before, and when we walked in, I was sure I wasn’t legally allowed to be here. I was underage, and this was no restaurant. It was dark and kind of dingy, the odor of beer and harder liquor strong in the air.
I smelled a familiar scent and noticed Owen sitting at the bar. Oh, no. I looked away before I caught his eye, afraid he’d see the fear in my face. I definitely didn’t want to drag him into this mess. I briefly wondered what he was doing in a place like this; it didn’t seem like his kind of hangout.
Tristan directed me to a table, where we sat next to each other, and Ian took a chair across from us. I started to reach for my pendant until I saw Tristan barely shake his head, knowing that fidgeting with it had become a nervous habit. There had been a reason he’d tucked it under my shirt. Needing something to do with my hands, I yanked and twisted my hair instead, trying not to rip it out.
As a waitress took our drink orders, the gorgeous blonde from Mario’s entered the bar. That surprised me even more than Owen being there—it definitely didn’t seem like her kind of place. Owen moved around the bar to sit next to her. She didn’t look happy at all about it, but let him pull her into a conversation—from what I could tell, a strained conversation. I hoped they could keep each other company, or, at least, busy. I didn’t exactly want her attention on Tristan. And I definitely didn’t want Owen’s attention on any of us.
Ian kept his pale blue eyes on us as he sat back in his chair, scrubbing his hand through his untidy, dull red hair, then folding his arms across his chest. He lifted his chin in my direction.
“Another toy for your collection?” His voice was calm, cool, but I could hear the menace in the tone.
“I told you, I don’t know her. She’s just a girl at the restaurant.” Tristan was a smooth liar . . . except his actions spoke too loudly.
Ian smirked. “Yeah, see, I don’t quite believe that. You’re too protective of her.”
“Only because she’s an innocent girl, in the wrong place at the wrong time. Just let her go, and you and I can . . . visit.”
Ian chuckled, a disgusting rattle, and leaned forward in his chair. “Protecting the innocent these days, eh? Well, if she means nothing to ya . . . then why don’t ya lemme play?”
Tristan leaned forward, too, and his muscles tightened against his shirt.
“No!”
“Hmph . . . yeah, what I thought.” Ian looked smug, still peering at me.
“What do you want? What are you doing here?” Tristan tried to distract the ogre, but Ian stared at me harder.
“Well, I heard ya were around, and I was in the neighborhood, so thought I’d drop in to say hullo, catch up, you know. But looks like I found an interesting situation.” Ian leaned almost all the way across the table, his fumes nauseating me. He studied me closely in the dim light. “Ah-ha. Yeah . . . I thought I heard blondie call ya Alexis. Wouldn’t happen to be Sophia’s Alexis, would ya, lassie?”
“Don’t be ridiculous,” Tristan said.
“The looks are right. The name is right.” He reached his hand out to touch my face, and I jerked my head back in revulsion. In a flash, Tristan was on his feet and lifting Ian by the collar. Several people turned to look in our direction. Ian laughed quietly. “Just a girl, heh?”
“Don’t touch her,” Tristan snarled.
Ian held his hands up in surrender. “All right, all right. I get it.”
Tristan let him go, and they both picked up their fallen chairs and sat back down. The staring bar patrons finally looked away. I understood why Ian wanted witnesses—Tristan couldn’t do anything . . . unusual . . . here.
The ogre grinned wretchedly, and his voice returned to its coolness. “Ya know, Seth, ya play with fire, you’ll get burned. Even you.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Amadis royalty? The worst of all evils. Not even you, the ultimate warrior, can handle that. They’ll take ya down.”
A moment of silence hung around us as the waitress set our drinks on the table then scurried away.
“You’ve never been the clever one, have you, Ian?” Tristan said. “You never could tell your ass from your head.”
“Oh, right.” Ian nodded. “I almost forgot. You think the Amadis are good, perfect. I spent two centuries with ’em, lived with all their damn rules, under their control. And I’m the one who’s ignorant?”
“Your lustful advances were rejected. You were out of line.”
“Don’t matter. I found my true family. Your real family, Seth. Ya think the Amadis are going to like this?” He waved his hand toward me. “Ya think you’re just one of them now? You’re the one who’s mistaken. They’ll stomp all over ya and throw ya out with the bleedin’ rubbish . . . if they don’t kill ya first. I’m surprised they haven’t done it yet . . . .”
Ian’s voice trailed off as his eyes widened. He nodded slowly, as if a realization had just dawned on him. He smirked again, his pale eyes moving back and forth between Tristan and me.
“Ahhh. That’s right. They’re still using ya, aren’t they? Have a little assignment for ya to do?” Ian’s voice was mocking. Tristan stiffened.
The question dinged in my head like an alarm or a reminder, but I couldn’t grasp at the thought trying to come forward from the back of my mind.
“You’re wrong,” Tristan said.
“Oh, I don’t think so. They let ya have a little taste of royalty arse here—” Ian flicked his hand toward me again “— they get what they want and ya get to walk free. Nice little assignment, ya lucky bastard.”
“Lies, Alexis, remember what I told you,” Tristan warned. Instead, I remembered that thought I had tried to grasp . . . Tristan saying something about an assignment he had when we first met. Is that what Ian’s talking about?
“Ha!” the ogre barked. “I was there when all the plans were made. Remember? Lil’ Alexis, just a babe then, and they had it all planned for ya.”
“Remember, Alexis, he’s a deceiver.” Tristan’s voice had that steely undertone to it.
“No, this is the truth, lassie.” Ian looked at me with glee in his eyes. “You were just a tiny bundle when the Amadis planned everything. You and Tristan here . . .”
“Shut the hell up!” Tristan nearly jumped out of his seat. Several people glanced over at us again.
My throat closed in, and my stomach knotted as I realized what Ian meant. Is it true? I tried to believe what Tristan had told me, repeating it to myself. Deception is his most powerful weapon. Ian carried on in a mocking tone, and it was too hard to block out.
“Oh, yes . . . Princess Alexis and King Tristan, the perfect combination, making the most powerful Amadis baby ever.” Ian bounced in his seat with excitement as he watched my reaction.
“What?” I choked.
“Don’t listen,” Tristan whispered. “He’s trying to take advantage of the situation, turning things around.”
He stood up, placed his fists on the table, and leaned threateningly toward Ian. His voice was low, but no longer a whisper. “If you don’t shut the fuck up, I will make it so you can never talk again. Witnesses or not.”
“You two got a problem, take it outta here,” the bartender called over in our direction.
Tristan held his hand out to me. “Come on, Alexis, we’re done here.”
I started to move.
“Ah, so ya don’t know yet,” Ian said to me, stopping me, mesmerizing me with his voice. Or maybe it was those pale blue eyes, like shallow pools of water, just deep enough to pull me under. “Looks like Seth’s the one who’s been doing the deceiving. What’d he do? Pretend to fall in love with you? He’s the best liar, I’m sure ya believed every last word . . . every last kiss. Did he feed ya the Amadis lie? Did he tell ya that you’re meant to be together, give you the frou-frou bullshit line of soul mates, when he don’t even believe it?”
The air caught in my throat as I tried to breathe. My chest squeezed, and my pulse throbbed in my ears. I looked up at Tristan, my eyes wide and burning. With no air, my voice was small. “Tristan?”
He turned stiffly to look at me. Muscles in his neck bulged, and his fists clenched, veins popping out.
“I’m sorry you had to find out this way,” he said flatly. Then he turned back to Ian, his eyes hard as marbles, his voice cold as ice. “You’re right. She means nothing to me. Leave her alone and deal with me.”
The air I’d been holding in my lungs came out in a whoosh. I shook my head, tears stinging my eyes.
“So you did lie to her. Back to your old ways, eh?”
Too fast to even see, Tristan had Ian pinned face down on the table, his arm twisted sickly behind him. “GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE. NOW!”
I trembled on the rickety wooden chair as everything inside me plummeted to the darkness of hell. It is true. Tristan’s been lying. I heard a choking sound and thought it was Ian but realized it came from me, my chest heaving, my throat squeezing. He doesn’t really love me. Tristan. Doesn’t. Love. Me.
Ian rolled his eyes up to me, drinking in my reaction.
“Looks like my work is done here anyway,” he said with a smirk. “Ya know you’ll be welcomed back where ya belong, Seth . . . if the Amadis don’t kill ya.”
Several people surrounded our table by then, including Owen and the blonde. I couldn’t focus on everything going on as I tried to simply breathe.
“Vanessa, I swear to God, if you touch her, I’ll come after you myself,” I heard Tristan say from what seemed like far away.
“So now you’re swearing to God, huh?” a musical voice responded, sounding just as distant.
There was a lot of commotion, and then Ian’s cackling and a chiming laugh faded toward the door. I vaguely heard Tristan say we were leaving, too, but I couldn’t move. I was frozen, lost within myself.
Tristan doesn’t love me. He never did. It was all just a lie. His words echoed in my head. She means nothing to me. I wrapped my arms around myself, clutching at my abdomen, my chest still heaving. My heart felt like it had been squeezed until it ruptured and now just sat in my chest, limp and lifeless, a burst balloon. I’m just an assignment to him. Nothing else.
Tristan came over to me, and I shrank away from him.
“Alexis, we need to go.” He reached out for my hand, and I jumped off the chair, knocking it over. “Let me take you home and explain.”
“Don’t you touch me!” I screamed, not caring who surrounded us.
He grabbed my wrists with one hand and pulled me close to him, holding my chin firmly with his other hand to make me look up at him. He was too strong for me to break loose. “You have to listen to me because you cannot believe him.”
“But you even said . . . ” I choked out.
“I told you I’d have to say things I didn’t mean. You have to believe me that I really love you, Alexis. Please believe that. Please trust me.”
No, he said he would have to say things he didn’t want to say. There was a difference. He even lied to me now. The tears disappeared as anger enveloped me. I broke away from him, yanking my hands out of his. My voice rose in volume and octaves so I didn’t even sound like myself.
“Trust you? After all this, you expect me to trust you? This whole thing has been nothing but a lie! You are a liar! You are the deceiver! And you’re so good at it because that’s what you’re made to do!”
I glared at him as if he were a monster. I didn’t even know who he was. His eyes—his whole face—filled with pain. And I was glad. I wanted him to hurt. I wanted him to hurt like hell. Because he had done the ultimate pain job on me.
“Go back to wherever you came from, Tristan, because you don’t belong with me.” I ran through the pub, out the door, and across the street to the beach.
Although the sand made it difficult, following the beach was the quickest way home. I ran for a while, not noticing the rain, not caring how dark it was, with only the light of the moon reflecting on the water. Someone came out of the darkness and grabbed me by the waist. I kicked and screamed.
“It’s not safe for you out here,” Tristan growled.
“I don’t care,” I yelled, still kicking and thrashing my arms. “I’d rather be dead.”
“Please don’t say that,” he murmured in my ear.
“You’ve already ripped me into pieces. I’m as good as dead, anyway.”
“Lexi, please . . .”
“Let me take her, Tristan.” Mom’s voice came from the darkness. Her small frame stepped out of the black trees and shrubs lining the top of the beach. “I’ve got her now.”
I squirmed, and Tristan released me. I ran into Mom’s arms and fell against her, my body racking with sobs.
She held me and stroked my hair while I cried, the rain pouring on us almost as fast as my tears. “Let’s go home, now.”
We left Tristan on the beach, standing alone in the rain. The last image burned on my eyes was his beautiful face contorted with agony.
Chapter 18
CHAPTER 18
As soon as we were home, I stripped my wet clothes off, put on sweats and a T-shirt, crawled under the covers of my bed, and sobbed. He doesn’t love me. He never did. I mean nothing to him. The phrases chanted in my head like a sick mantra. When my stomach and chest hurt too much to sob anymore, I lay there, tears streaming silently. I don’t know when I fell asleep or for how long, but when I woke up, it was still dark, and I was still trembling.
As the new day dawned, I realized it was the first day of the rest of my life without Tristan. Without love. Without hope. When no more tears came, anger did. Anger at Tristan, anger at my mother, anger at myself.
“How could he do this to me? Why would she let him? How did I fall for it?” I screamed at the walls and the ceiling. I beat on my pillows and bed, letting them take the wrath, and finally broke down into sobs again . . . then silent tears . . . then exhaustion.
Sometime in the late morning there was a knock on my door.
“Go away!”
“I need to talk to you,” Mom said through the door.
“I said to go away!” I turned over on my side, facing the wall, my back to the door in case she came in anyway, but she didn’t knock again or say anything else.
Later that afternoon, I quietly slipped to the kitchen, hoping Mom was gone for the day. When I turned around after drinking my water, though, she was waiting, a look of deep concern etched into her face. I glanced past her, into the living room, and saw the familiar sandy-brown hair and wide shoulders over the top of the couch. Renewed ire filled me, and fresh tears sprang into my eyes. Stupid angry tears. I hated them for making me look weak. I hated everything and everyone for making me look like a fool.
“Leave me alone,” I muttered and rushed back to my room. I swung the door closed, but she caught it. I crawled back into bed, my back to her.
“Alexis, please let me explain,” she said.
I turned over and glared at her. “Why? It’s all just bullshit lies.”
“That’s why. So you can understand the truth.”
I sat up and hardened my eyes. “You mean the half-truth—no, not even half, the partial truth. You two never tell me the whole truth. The only two people in this world who I thought I could trust. Why should I believe anything now? It’s all lies!”
“You have to believe he really loves you, Alexis.”
I glared at her. “And that is the biggest, bald-faced, bullshit lie of them all!”
Heavy footsteps sounded down the hall, then the front door creaked as it opened. Mom glanced over her shoulder and then back at me. “You’re killing him, you know.”
“Good! He’s already all but killed me. In fact, I would have been better off if he had killed me when he wanted to.”
The front door slammed shut. He’d heard that. I was glad. Not really. No, not really, but I wanted to be glad.
Mom came over and sat at the end of my bed. I scooted myself away until my back pressed against the broken headboard, a casualty of my anger fits.
“You know what really gets me, Sophia?” I fumed. “You knew all along. You let all this happen. You’re supposed to be my mother.”
Her eyes narrowed. “That’s exactly why you need to listen to me. I am your mother. I would not let anything or anyone intentionally hurt you. Do you really think I would have let this go on with him if I didn’t believe he truly loved you?”
“Wasn’t that the plan?” I spewed.
“You don’t even know the plan. You’re all worked up about something you don’t understand.”
I crossed my arms over my chest. “So educate me. Tell me what I’m missing here that makes the lies okay.”
Mom studied my face, took a deep breath, and blew it out. “Over eighty years ago, when I went through the Ang’dora, we thought our bloodline would die out and the Amadis would collapse. Remember, the Amadis is a society. Our family started it and continues to rule it. It’ll fall apart without us. I was the last in our bloodline, and I’d had no children. Since no one had ever reproduced after the Ang’dora, your conception and birth seemed like miracles to us. Realizing there was hope for us to continue, it was decided it’d be in our best interest of survival—possibly our only chances of survival—if you joined with the strongest, most powerful male with original Amadis blood.”
“Tristan,” I spat.
“Yes, Tristan. A child from the two of you would guarantee our survival for many centuries. I can’t tell you what it means for the Amadis to survive, but perhaps you can understand if you remember the Daemoni are our enemies and, well, let’s just say the world’s not safe if they’re here without us.”
I nodded reluctantly. I knew where this was going.
“So where does this farce of a relationship and love come in?” I demanded. “Haven’t the Amadis heard of in vitro fertilization?”
Mom held her palm up. “Just back up a bit here. When you were born, I took you to the Amadis, and that’s when the council made its final decision . . . the plans for you and Tristan. I adamantly opposed it, believing it would not turn out well. Tristan opposed it, too. He thought it wasn’t fair to you. But the council was settled.
“The council, in general, believed the two of you were meant for each other and you would be true soul mates. They tried to convince Tristan and me, but neither of us believed it possible. We both eventually agreed to the decision, though. For the next eighteen years, he went his way, and I took you my way. I figured at some point, when you were much older than you are now, the two of you would find a way to make it happen and then go your separate ways.
“After waiting and stewing over this for so long, though, Tristan became curious. As soon as you turned eighteen, he came looking for you. He’s told you the rest from there.”
I stared at Mom. I still didn’t get how the last nine months had anything to do with it. “So it was all just a setup, and I was an obligation to him. We even talked about arranged marriages. He had the opportunity to come clean then. So did you!”
“And how would you have reacted?” Mom challenged. “Would you have even given this relationship a chance?”
My mouth opened, but closed immediately, and I scowled. “Probably would have been better off,” I muttered and shook my head, determined to turn this back on them. “Why did he have to lie about loving me? How can you justify that?”
“I don’t believe it’s a lie. I feel it’s the truth. I’ve felt it since the day I came back from that trip and saw how happy you two were together. I just didn’t want to feel it then. But not wanting it doesn’t make it go away. I believe the council was right, and you two were meant to be together. You belong together. Telling you about the arrangement seemed pointless.”
My eyes hardened with my heart. “I don’t buy it. He came here to complete his little assignment so he could get on with his long, miserable life. I was just a responsibility, and he wanted to get it done and out of the way. If he really loved me, he would have found a way to tell me.”
“You’re being ridiculous, Alexis, and you know it deep down in your heart.”
I shrugged. I didn’t want to know what hid deep down in my heart because it meant pain (love).
“Whatever,” I finally muttered. I punched my pillow and lay back down on my side, facing the wall again.
“Alexis, you love him, don’t you?”
I ignored her. She eventually got the message and left.
She was right. I did love him, to my core. If I wasn’t sure before, the intense pain I felt now proved it. But he didn’t really love me. How could he? He had to play through the whole thing so he could get used to being around me without wanting to kill me. After all, we couldn’t create a kid if he murdered me in the process. He just needed to make it seem real to keep me around long enough. Even went so far as to propose . . .
I broke down in tears and then full-body sobs again. When the anger followed, I mostly directed it at myself for being so damn stupid. A part of me knew it all along . . . the part still protecting my most vulnerable, intimate areas . . . the part that knew he really was too good to be true, that it never was real. That I had good reason not to trust him. I cried through another night.
The next few days consisted of a few more tears, a lot more anger, staring at the walls, and restless sleep. I didn’t eat and had to force myself to even take a shower. No school, no Tristan . . . no reason to care. My future, my whole life was over. Not over, as in I wanted to kill myself. Just over as in that chapter ended, and I couldn’t find the beginning of the next one. So many unknowns loomed in my future, and the one thing I’d finally become so sure about—my anchor—was gone. I didn’t know what to do with myself anymore. I’d forgotten how to be alone. Not only had I lost my love, I’d lost my best friend.
Time became a nonentity to me as I drifted through the hours and days. Tristan came by the cottage several times, but I stayed in my room and refused to acknowledge him. He could only be there for one reason—to explain himself and end it in person. I couldn’t deal with the rejection all over again. It was easier to just be mad, because I was afraid of what my heart would do if I even heard his lovely voice or saw his . . .  Nope, not even going to think about it. When I’d hear him leave, I had to fight the urge to run after him. So I stayed in the safety of my room, rebuilding the wall around my heart he’d so effectively torn down.
* * *
“Good to see you out of your room,” Mom said one morning when I slouched into the kitchen. She was about to leave for the store. “It’s only been nearly a week. You look like hell.”
“A week?” I couldn’t believe I’d wasted so much time sulking.
She looked at me with concern. “Maybe you could at least go to the beach or something. I bet you’d like that. It would make you feel better.”
“Yeah, maybe,” I mumbled. I doubted it would make me feel better. I loved the beach, but it happened to be where I had a lot of memories I didn’t want to stir up.
Mom left as I sipped a cup of coffee, staring at the cream-colored kitchen walls and trying not to think. I eventually poured a bowl of cereal I really didn’t want. I took a couple bites and watched the rest turn to mush when there was a knock at the door. I stiffened in my chair. It could only be one person, and I panicked. If I tried slipping across the kitchen to my room, I’d pass the hallway and he’d see me through the door glass. I didn’t want to answer it, but he’d become familiar enough to usually enter on his own. I leaned over in my chair to peer around the corner at the door. Whew.
“Hey, Owen,” I muttered when I opened the door.
“Hey, Alexis. You, uh, look like hell.”
I still wore pajama bottoms and a tank top, my hair pulled up in a sloppy bun. I could only imagine how red and swollen my face was.
“Nice to see you, too,” I said. I peered at him and noticed bruises all over his arms. “You look like hell, too. What happened to you?”
I reached my hand out to his arm, stopping just before touching the purplish marks. He cleared his throat. “That would be, uh, your boyfriend . . . or fiancé . . . or whatever he is.”
“Ex,” I mumbled under my breath. But then the meaning hit me. “Tristan did that to you? What on earth for?”
He chuckled. “We sparred at the gym. He’s just been, um, a little aggressive lately. No one else will even spar with him anymore, and I’m pretty sure he’s holding back.”
Well, yeah, or he would’ve killed you. I felt horrible for Owen—normal Owen who had no idea how bad it could’ve been, and he couldn’t even heal himself.
I sighed. “I’m really sorry. I think you’re getting the brunt of . . . our break up.”
“I can take it. Rather me than someone else,” he mumbled.
I gestured for him to come in, and he followed me into the kitchen. “Mom left nearly an hour ago. Do you need something?”
“No, actually, I just stopped by to see how you’re doing.”
I spun around, surprised. “Well, I’ve had better weeks, but I’ll be fine.”
He smiled. I’d never really paid attention to how nice his smile was. In fact, looking at him now was like looking at him for the first time. I realized he was actually kind of attractive. I also knew he was a good, sweet guy. I thought maybe someday, when I put myself back together, we could at least be friends. Real friends who hung out and did things.
Then I remembered Tristan was the only person who hadn’t fled when he learned the truth about me. The only real friend I’d ever had. I swallowed hard, fighting tears down, not wanting Owen to see me cry.
“No visitors?” he asked.
“Uh, no.” Why would he want to know that?
“Okay.” Awkward silence. “Would you, uh, want to go to the beach or something . . . maybe . . . sometime?”
He must have been asking if Tristan, specifically, had visited. I wondered if he was afraid of him, knowing what just a small bit of Tristan’s wrath felt like.
“Um, I don’t know right now, actually. I’ve been ignoring my writing and . . .”
“Yeah, that’s cool. I understand.” He smiled weakly. We stood there awkwardly, then his head cocked and his eyes seemed distant for a brief moment. He headed for the door. “Well, uh, you’re okay here?”
I smiled and thought my cheeks would crack from the falsity of it. “Yeah, I’ll be fine.”
“Okay.” He didn’t seem convinced, but didn’t press it.
“Very weird,” I muttered to myself after he left. Over time, we’d become a lot friendlier at the store, but nothing more. He came around sometimes to fix something in the house, but we never talked; I was always shut in my room, writing. I wondered what prompted him to stop by and check up on me. He hadn’t done that since Mom had left town that one weekend. I figured he was just trying to be a friend, worried after seeing the whole thing go down at the pub.
I headed to the kitchen to dump my soggy cereal. There was another knock, and the door opened.
“What now, Owen?”
I took two steps into the hallway and ran into—electric pulses through my body—Tristan. My stomach rolled and fell to my thighs.
“Oh,” I breathed. We both stopped dead. Mmm . . . he smells so good. I couldn’t look at his face, though, so I stared at the floor. He put his thumb under my chin—more electric shocks—and lifted my head, forcing me to look at him.
“You look like hell,” he said. I pulled my face away and headed back into the kitchen.
“Yeah, that’s what I’ve been told.” I turned and glared at him, then said harshly, “You can thank yourself for that.”
He scowled. “I do blame myself,” he muttered.
He didn’t look too good either. Still beautiful, just . . . wrong.
“You look like hell, too,” I said.
He looked down at the box he held. “I brought this over for you.”
He lifted the brown box out toward me. I didn’t take it.
“I don’t want anything from you,” I said coldly. His face broke, sadness overcoming it. Why am I acting like this? I couldn’t look at him so I grabbed my bowl of soggy cereal from the table and took it over to the sink.
“It’s your stuff,” he mumbled. He set it on the table. “I was going through things before I started packing.”
I whirled on him, dirty milk sloshing everywhere.
“You’re packing?” Panic squeezed my chest.
“Yes, I’m moving.”
“You’re moving?” The bowl fell out of my hands and clamored into the sink. I couldn’t breathe. Don’t leave me! I swallowed hard to push down the lump in my throat. I thought it was my heart. I fought back tears, refusing to let him see me cry again.
“I shouldn’t be around here.” He studied my face, tried to look into my eyes, but I looked away, afraid of what he might see. He added quietly, “And, I guess there’s nothing to stay for.”
Me! Stay here for me! You can’t leave me! I took a deep breath. I hoped he didn’t hear how ragged it was . . . or that he did. And then I hoped he’d see the tears fighting to break so he’d know how I felt without my having to say it. Then I was scared of his reaction . . . or non-reaction. That he wouldn’t care. Because he didn’t love me.
“Oh,” I finally said, not able to say anything else, because if I did, it would only result in more rejection and pain.
“Are you okay?” he asked.
“No,” I said honestly. He scowled again. “But I’ll be fine. No permanent damage done, I’m sure.”
Liar! Pain flashed across his eyes, but then he composed himself.
“Yeah, of course. Well, I guess I’ll leave you alone.” He lifted my chin with his thumb again and gazed into my eyes. I couldn’t even see the specks of gold in his, they were so dim. No sparkle at all. More tears threatened. His eyes softened, and he looked so sincere when he said it . . .  “I do love you, ma lykita. Forever.”
Before I could even blink, he was out the door. I stood there in shock for several beats. Oh, God! I bolted for the door, threw it open, and ran outside.
“Tristan!” I yelled.
But he was already gone.
Some kids across the street stared at me while I just stood there, still in my PJs, looking frantically up and down the street. It was as though he’d disappeared.
I trudged back inside to my room and stared at the wall for several hours, an occasional tear escaping. I didn’t know what to believe anymore. Part of me wanted to run to him, to believe he loved me. Another part screamed in protest, reminding me I couldn’t trust him, he’d only hurt me again. And a very small third part said to stop crying and get over him already. The other parts yelled at that one to shut the hell up because I didn’t want to get over him. Even if it meant being miserable.
I remembered the box, brought it into my room before I opened it, and found only a few items inside. There was my blouse I’d been wearing one night when we made dinner at his house and the sauce splattered all over it, so he gave me one of his T-shirts to wear. His scent permeated my blouse. I buried my face in it and inhaled deeply. Mmm . . . mangos and papayas, lime and sage, and a hint of man . . . I remembered I still had his shirt somewhere. I searched in the bottom of my closet for it and put it to my face before pulling it over my tank top. The only other items in the box were the framed poem I’d given him for Christmas, my engagement ring, and a note.
My Dearest, Beloved Alexis,
I love you. Te amo. Je t'aime. Σ' αγαπώ. Ti amo.
I love you. I love you. I love you.
I don’t know how many times or how many ways I need to say it before you will believe me. I am sure you have lost all trust in me now, and I understand. I hope you will understand one day that it was not my place to tell you about the Amadis arrangement. All I could do was make it happen, and that is what led me to fall completely, irreversibly, undeniably in love with you. You bring the very best out of me, especially the ability to love and allow myself to be loved. After all we have shared, I just don’t know how else I can convince you that my love is irrefutably authentic. You are my soul mate.
I am returning the poem you wrote for me because I cannot keep it, knowing you do not feel that love for me anymore. I also want you to keep your ring. I designed it especially for you with the intent of you keeping it forever. Do with it what you want. It is yours and always will be—just like my heart.
I want to believe in you and me together forever, but if you do not come back to me, my forever is over. Without you, my world is bleak again. I beg that you will bring your light back into my life, but if not, I understand and will accept existing in darkness.
I love you more than any soul has ever loved another, my Lexi, ma lykita.
From the deepest, darkest corners of my heart,
ALL of my love,
Tristan
Tears streamed down my cheeks at the first line, and I was ugly-crying by the time I finished it. I read it over and over, tears staining it, causing the ink to run in places. I finally dropped it back into the box and held my blouse to my face as I curled up and sobbed.
Mom came in later, after darkness had consumed my room. She flipped the light on, blinding me.
“I thought you were okay this morning . . .” She stopped when I flicked my hand toward the box.
She sat on my bed and peered into it. She picked up the framed poem, read it, and set it on my nightstand. I stared at it. I already had the poem memorized. I inhaled a ragged breath. She picked up my ring and the note, and after reading the note, she placed it in front of the poem and put my ring on top. I sniffed and wiped at my cheeks.
When she finally spoke, her voice was soft and quiet. “Alexis, I think you both want the same thing. Why don’t you⁠—”
I interrupted her. “I just can’t yet.”
She stood and picked up the now empty box. “Well, you’re running out of time, honey.”
“I know,” I whispered.
I had another night of restless sleep, my blouse and his shirt bunched around my face so I could smell him. By morning, though, I’d decided I’d moped enough. I told myself some fresh air and distraction was what I needed to clear my head and think things through. I went for a short walk on the beach. It wasn’t a great idea; I felt so alone. So I went back home and escaped to my book, losing myself in an imaginary love story where everyone lived happily ever after.
“Do you know when he’s moving?” I asked Mom that night.
“I don’t think he’s set a date yet. I think he’s still waiting . . .”
I nodded and went back to my book. I spent the next day immersed in the fictional world I’d created.
“Has he set a date yet?” I asked Mom that night. She shook her head.
Chapter 19
CHAPTER 19
I spent the next two days the same way. I worked on the book all day; I asked Mom the same question at night. She said no both times. I breathed a sigh of relief. By the end of the third day, I felt the novel was as good as I could make it without input from others. It was time to hand it over—let someone else delve into my fantasies and see what I think about, how weird and twisted and lovely my imagination could be. I practically danced around the printer as each page slowly slid out, feeling both nervous and excited for Mom to finally read it.
Needing something to do to pass the time before she came home, I took a long, hot shower and then painted my toenails purple. Finishing the book and then pampering myself cheered me up. Maybe tomorrow I’ll feel good enough to call him. Maybe.
When I came out of the bathroom, I heard voices. I peeked into the kitchen to see who was with Mom. She leaned over the counter, her head in her hands, the phone in front of her. She had it set on speaker, and when I heard Tristan’s name, I stepped back to listen.
“I’ve tried to talk sense into him, but he’s not listening,” Mom said. “He insists there’s nothing to keep him here, there’s no reason to stick around.”
“Stefan has been over there, too, with the same results,” said a female voice through the phone’s speaker. She had a foreign accent I couldn’t place. “We cannot let him go, Sophia.”
“I know.”
“There is only one person who will get through to him. You know that.”
“She’s still unwilling. I think she wants to, but she’s struggling to trust that he really loves her.”
“Oh, of course he does! From what you and Stefan have told me, there is no doubt.”
“I know, but she doesn’t. Or if she does, she won’t admit it. She’s can be quite stubborn.”
“Like mother like daughter,” the other woman said, and Mom rolled her eyes at the phone. “You need to persuade her, Sophia. She needs to understand. Otherwise, we will lose him forever.”
Mom rubbed at her forehead. “Yes, I’m sure of that. I’m pretty sure he’s going back to them.”
“So am I.”
My chest constricted, strangling my heart. Oh, no! Oh, God, no!
“Do you think they’ll kill him?” Mom nearly whispered. My stomach lurched, filling my mouth with bitter bile.
“I am not sure. They have a terrible desire to control him again, but if they think they cannot, they will undoubtedly kill him for his betrayal. Either way, we lose him.”
I rushed into the kitchen and skidded to a halt in front of Mom. Her gaze flew to me. She had to see the terror on my face, but put her finger to her lips. I wanted to scream at her and the woman on the phone, but could barely pull air through my constricting throat. I felt like I was suffocating.
“You must convince her, Sophia. She is the only one⁠—”
“I think we have an answer. I’ll call you back.” Mom quickly pressed the end button. “Alexis . . .”
The world fuzzed around the edges, then started to go black. I thought I was about to pass out, but I’d never done that before, so I wasn’t sure. Mom caught me and set me in a chair, pushing my head between my knees.
“Mom . . .” I gasped. “Tristan . . . ?”
“You heard?”
My head shot up, and pinpricks of light flashed before my eyes. I looked past them at her face. Her expression was a mix of several different emotions, none of them good. Fear, worry, grief, anxiety . . . I’d never seen Mom so distressed.
“What do I do?” I pleaded.
“I think you know,” she whispered.
“How much time do I have?”
“I don’t know. Tonight. Maybe tomorrow.”
“NO!”
I bolted for my room. Yes, I know what to do. I dressed quickly in what I knew he liked, just in case it made a difference—the green blouse Mom gave me for Christmas and a denim mini skirt. I threw my hair in a quick twist to get it out of my face and emptied my school bag on my bed, scattering papers and pens everywhere. I threw the framed poem and his note into the bag. I tucked my ring into my hip pocket. I stood in the door and glanced around, trying to think if there was anything else that might help. My eyes landed on the manuscript I’d just printed. I’d promised Mom first read. She’ll understand. I grabbed it, slipped it into a folder, and shoved it in the bag. I spun for the door, where Mom waited.
“I drive faster,” she said.
“I can’t be there without a car, just in case . . .”
“I’ll leave it.”
She waved off the look I gave her.
“I’ll get home fine. Don’t worry,” she said.
She raced along the surface streets. It didn’t feel fast enough. I tried to think of what I’d say or do but nothing came to mind. We turned into his driveway in two minutes. I’d have to wing it.
“You can do this, honey.” She pecked me on the forehead, and then she was gone.
“Tristan!” I yelled from the driveway. I rushed up the stairs to the dining room door and banged on it. “Tristan!”
I pressed my face against the glass to peer inside. It looked empty except for some boxes and furniture piled at the far end of the living room. He hasn’t left. Yet. But he never came to the door, and I wondered if he was even home. A light glowed from the hallway, coming from either the office or the gym. I pressed my ear to the glass and felt the thrum of blaring music. He’ll never hear me over that! Damn, damn, damn!
I ran back down the stairs to the keypad by the garage door. I had no idea what the code was and knew it was hopeless. Unable to keep still, pacing the driveway, I tried to think how he would think. It wouldn’t be his birth date. He ignored that date. But maybe . . . Without anything to lose, I tried my birth date. Holy hell! It worked! The door right next to me started lifting. As soon as I was able, I ducked underneath it and hit the button to close it. I ran up the stairs to the house.
“TRI—”
His name lodged in my throat. A steel vise grabbed me by the neck and pinned me to the wall two feet off the floor. I couldn’t breathe, couldn’t even struggle. The bag fell from my hand. I heard the glass frame break. My heart raced even harder.
“Alexis?” The lovely voice twisted in horror.
Just as my vision started to blur around the edges again, I saw Tristan step back, his hand dropping from my neck. Then I was free and fell to the floor. My lungs seized to pull in air.
“Tri . . . stan . . .” I gasped, kneeling on all fours.
“What are you doing here?” he growled. “I almost killed you.”
“I’m . . . sorry . . . I . . . banged . . . on the . . . door.” I inhaled as deeply as I could, the air tearing at my throat like razor blades. “You couldn’t hear me.”
“What are you doing here?” he growled again. Fire blazed in his eyes.
I scrambled to my feet.
“I . . . I came to stop you.” My voice sounded small and weak with fear.
“Stop me from what?” His rough tone was unfamiliar. I didn’t like it at all. He folded his arms across his chest.
“From wherever you’re going.” My voice grew stronger. He won’t hurt me . . . not on purpose anyway.
“It’s too late,” he growled angrily.
“But you’re still here!”
“You’ve made your feelings clear. I have nothing to stay for.”
“But I’m here. I’m here for you.”
He glared at me.
“Where are you going?” I challenged with an edge in my voice as the anger rose. I’d need that anger if I had to protect myself.
“Exactly where you told me to. Where I came from!”
“No! You said you’d never go back.” I lifted my chin and narrowed my eyes, daring him to defy his own words.
“I’ve been wrong all along. I failed with you. I failed at this life. It’s where I belong.”
“But you didn’t fail with me. I’m here, Tristan. I’m here for you!”
He glowered at me. “They sent you, didn’t they?”
“No! I’m here for us. I love you. And I know you love me, too. And that means you did not fail at this life. You belong with me. Stay for me.” I lost the edge as tears burned my eyes.
“How can you say that? You don’t even trust me. You can’t love me!”
“But I do. I love you. I trust you! You are everything to me.” I stared at him as he glared back with those fiery eyes. Oh, God, please help me. I can’t lose him! I knelt by my bag and pulled the broken frame out. I held it out to him. “Here! This comes from my heart. It still holds true. It always will.”
He ignored it.
I put it on the floor and pulled the note out and waved it. “Your letter! I cried over it for days. You said you wanted me back. I’m here.”
No reaction. I pled my love to a boulder.
“Please, Tristan,” I begged. “Please listen to me.”
I wiped the tears out of my eyes with the heel of my palm. His eyes narrowed, but he didn’t budge. I pulled the manuscript out of the bag and held the folder open.
“My novel. I want you to be the first to read it.”
I thought I saw a slight change in his eyes. The fire dimmed just a bit. I stood up and held the manuscript at him, but he didn’t take it.
“Please. I’ve shared it with no one else. I want you to be the first.”
He didn’t budge. I tossed it on a side table standing next to the three remaining kitchen chairs, waiting to be hauled onto a moving truck. His eyes followed the folder, then flew back to me. I took a deep breath, trying to think of what to do next. I fished the ring out of my pocket and held it up.
“I will keep this forever, but only when you put it back on my finger.”
He still didn’t move, but his eyes softened.
“I want to marry you, Tristan. I want to spend the rest of my life with you. Forever with you. You and me together. You can’t leave me.”
I placed the ring on the manuscript and pulled a chair over in front of him. I stepped up on it so I could look directly into his eyes. The flames still flickered, still bright, but I’d seen worse. I touched his cheek and flinched from the powerful electric pulse, but I didn’t let it stop me. I held my hands to each side of his unshaven face. He stood completely still. I gazed deeply into his eyes, noticing the flames dimming more.
“I love you, Tristan Knight,” I whispered. “You will not leave me.”
Still no reaction except that slight change in the eyes. Give him everything. Show him your trust. I knew it was risky, with that fire still burning, but I didn’t know what else to do. I’d already offered him everything I had. The book had softened him, but I needed more. And there was only one last way to prove I trusted him completely, with all of my vulnerabilities. With a here-goes-nothing breath, I unbuttoned my blouse and let it fall to the floor. I scooted my skirt down my legs and stepped out of it. I unhooked my bra and let it fall, then slid my panties off. I stood naked on the chair right in front of him and held my arms out wide, open for his scrutiny.
“You have all of me now. I trust you with everything. I am all yours!”
His eyes traveled up and down my body.
“You’re being really stupid,” he growled. His hand twitched. Finally, a reaction. “I could kill you right now.”
I lifted my chin and firmly set my voice. “If you’re going to leave, if you’re going back to them, then you’d be putting me out of my misery because I can’t live with that.”
The fire dimmed instead of brightening. I knew it was okay. I took his face in my hands again, ignoring the shock this time.
“But you’re not going to. You love me, and you won’t hurt me,” I whispered. I pressed my lips against his. He remained unresponsive but I continued to kiss him, looking into his eyes the whole time. “Please, Tristan. I know you love me. Please show me you’re still here with me.”
I slipped my hands back into his hair, tugging at it, and moved my lips over his cheekbone, to his ear and down his neck, then back up around his scruffy jaw.
“Please, Tristan.”
When my lips returned to his, he opened his mouth slightly, and I tasted him. I traced my tongue over his lips and slipped it between. He started to respond, moving his lips slowly with mine, tasting me. I moved my mouth over his face and neck again, kissing and sucking. I undid the buttons I could reach and gave up and tore his shirt apart, pressing my naked breasts against his bare chest. I felt the warmth of his hands on my back, sliding down over my butt and back up again. I trembled with anticipation. Our mouths crushed against each other, and we hungrily kissed and bit and tugged.
He pressed his hand against the small of my back and pulled me up. I wrapped my legs around his waist, and he turned and sat in the chair. I traced my hands over his chest, down his torso, back up and over his shoulders, and then pressed myself against him, electricity jolting through my body. My lower abdomen and groin tightened with excitement and anticipation. He unclipped my twist and let my hair fall, then pulled back on it, forcing my neck and chest up. His hand slid over and around my breast, squeezing it gently and then holding it as he kissed and licked and sucked, pulling my nipple tight, making it erect. He performed the same magic with its twin. I ground my pelvis against him, and I felt him hard underneath me.
“Ah, Lexi,” he groaned. He looked into my eyes, and the fire burned in his. But I felt safe.
I started working frantically on his belt, getting it undone, then his jeans button, while I ran my mouth around his jaw. “Make love to me, Tristan,” I breathed.
He slid his hands down my sides, over my hips and under me, his fingers so close to that one area throbbing the most for his touch. I wiggled against him to make it easier for him to reach.
“Argh! No!”
His hands suddenly grasped my waist, and he lifted me up and tried to set me on my feet, but my knees buckled, and I fell to the floor. Tears pooled again as I looked up at him.
“You really don’t want me?” I whispered, a tear slipping down my cheek as that fear of rejection started to wrap itself around me like a black cloak.
He stared at me for a long, painful moment and then slid off the chair, down to his knees in front of me. I watched his eyes as the flames dimmed and the gold started to gleam. He smiled as he put his hand under my chin and rubbed his thumb across my swollen lower lip.
“Oh, I want you, my Lexi, ma lykita. I want you more than life itself.”
I breathed a sigh of relief. “I’m ready. I’m ready to give myself to you. I trust you. Completely.”
“You don’t know how happy that makes me.” He bent over and kissed me, long and gentle. “But . . . I don’t know that I’m ready, and I’m not taking any chances with you.”
I stared at him as my heart settled down. I knew he could control himself. After what just happened, when the monster had been closer to the surface than I’d ever seen before, I knew he’d be fine. It was our love and my trust in him that would bring him through. That’s what he’d needed all along.
He looked into my eyes, his full of love. “We had a deal.”
“What?” Why did that matter now?
“We’re waiting until we’re married.”
I shook my head. “That wasn’t our deal. Our deal is we’ll get married when we’re ready. But if we’re ready, why wait?”
He smiled. “Because we’re going to do this right.”
“Because young Tristan always wanted a virgin on his wedding night?”
“Young Seth would have taken you the first day you met him, and you would have thanked him for it. I’m trying to be a different person. Humor me.”
The reminder caught me off guard for a moment, but then I shrugged. “Fine. Then let’s get married.”
He sighed. “You have another deal . . . with Sophia.”
“It’s done. The novel’s over there.” I flicked my hand toward the table where the manuscript lay.
“You won’t submit it without anyone reading it.”
I searched his face. “Why are you making this difficult?”
“Because I need more time.” He pulled me onto his lap, wrapped his arms around me, and kissed me again.
“How can you just cut things off like that?” I asked, still feeling the warmth and pulsing throughout my body.
“Hundreds of years of practice. I’ve mastered control over that part. It’s . . . the monster . . . I have to worry about.”
The meaning was like an icy breeze, cooling the heat that remained. We sat there for a few more minutes.
“Are you . . . okay?”
He nodded. “Yes, now that you’re here.”
More silence. Then he said, “I’m glad you’re ready. That you trust me completely. What changed your mind?”
I swallowed. “I didn’t exactly change my mind. I just realized the truth that was there all along. When I thought I would lose you forever . . . you are more important to me than any part of myself.”
He frowned. “I don’t deserve that.”
“It’s not a matter of what you deserve or what I deserve. It just is. I can’t live without you. I mean, I can, of course, but I don’t want to. I need you in my life, Tristan.”
He narrowed his eyes and cocked his head. “It is I who needs you. Without your love, without you in my life, I am nothing but darkness. I exist without you, but I want to live with you.”
“Exactly. We need each other.” I caressed his face. “You and me together.”
He leaned his forehead against mine. “Forever.”
He reached over to the table, picked off my ring, and slid it onto my finger.
“Think you can stand yet?” He smiled.
I sighed and wrapped my arms around his neck. “If I have to. But I really like it here.”
His fingers trailed lightly up and down my spine, and I quivered. He nibbled at my ear and murmured, “You really need to put your clothes on. Before I lose control.”
“You won’t, though. I’m sitting in your lap naked, and you’re fine.”
“No, I’m not fine. You have no idea how hard it is for me.”
I lifted an eyebrow, knowing exactly what was hard. A small smile played on his delicious lips, but I could see in his eyes he fought something inside—and not, I knew, just normal human desire. I didn’t want to do that to him. I reluctantly stood up, picked up my clothes, and headed for the stairs.
“Where are you going?” he asked, bemused.
“To bed, if you still have one,” I said over my shoulder.
He grabbed the manuscript and followed me. “You’re putting some clothes on.”
“Yes, sir, I am.”
His mattress and box springs leaned against the wall in his bedroom. Everything was in boxes. I looked at him sadly, realizing how close I’d come to losing him.
“It’s an easy fix, my love.” He started putting the bed back together, lifting the pieces with ease, making certain parts of my body tremor as his muscles rippled. I turned away before I lost control, and found what I wanted—his suitcase. I dug around for one of his shirts, put it to my face, and inhaled deeply. I slipped on my panties and pulled his shirt on. He raised an eyebrow and smiled. “I like that look.”
We found all the bedding, and the big bed was quickly back together and quite inviting. I started to crawl in when I remembered Mom. I called to let her know everything was okay, he was staying, and everyone could relax. Then I finally crawled into bed and snuggled next to Tristan, who sat up against the headboard, already several pages into the manuscript. He put his arm around me. I stroked his chest and kissed his jaw, enamored with the roughness of what was usually clean-shaven skin.
“I’m trying to read this really good book here,” he said, his eyes not leaving the page.
Not knowing whether he meant it or not—and not wanting to know yet—I ignored him. “Thank you for not leaving me.”
He pulled his eyes away from the manuscript and smiled. “Thank you for coming back to me . . . and for saving me from myself.”
He kissed me gently. After nearly two weeks of hardly any sleep, and now finally content again, I was out as soon as his lips left mine.
Chapter 20
CHAPTER 20
Sweet breath, wet kisses, and a gentle tug on my lower lip awoke me.
“Rise and shine, sweet love of mine,” Tristan murmured in my ear.
I smiled and stretched and peeked through my eyelids. He’d opened the window shutters and light flooded the bedroom. I squeezed my eyes shut. “Mmm . . . do I have to?”
I felt him crawl onto the bed next to me and lay behind me. He snuggled tightly against my back. “I’ve been waiting too long for you to waste the day sleeping.”
I slowly opened my eyes and let them adjust to the light. When I could finally focus, blue sky and the Gulf of Mexico spread out forever before me. “Wow. I could wake up to this every morning.”
“That could be arranged . . .”
I turned onto my back and Tristan propped himself on his elbow, gazing down at me, the gold in his eyes glittering, the green shining like emeralds. I reached up and caressed his now smooth face.
“I missed you,” I whispered.
“I missed you, too, ma lykita.” He gave me a long, loving kiss, then he scooped his arm under me and the next thing I knew, I was on top of him. He pushed me up into a sitting position, straddling his waist. “That’s why I’m tired of watching you sleep.”
“What time is it anyway?”
“Almost noon. You’ve slept over fourteen hours.”
“Yeah, well . . .” I decided not to mention the last two weeks of hell. “How long have you been up?”
“A couple hours. I slept in, too. It’s been a while since I’ve slept at all, and then I was up most of the night reading.” He grinned and winked. I stared at him stupidly, not even realizing I traced random shapes on his bare stomach until I felt his muscles flex.
“That feels incredible . . . and distracting.” He grabbed my hand and entwined his fingers with mine.
“I’ll remember that,” I said with a smile. “So, what’s on the agenda?”
“Whatever you want.”
That was easy. “Can we ride to Gasparilla?”
He frowned. “Except that. It’s rainy season, and the storms will come in before we get back. It won’t be much fun.”
“Well, if we need to stay indoors, then we should get you unpacked.” I glanced around at the boxes.
“We should probably leave that for now. Could be a waste of time.”
I stiffened. “Why?”
“Don’t worry. I’m not going anywhere without you.” He brushed my lips with his fingertips. I immediately relaxed and narrowed my eyes.
“Don’t do that to me.” I swung my leg off him and crawled to the side of the bed.
“Don’t leave. I’m sorry!” He sounded nearly as panicked as I’d felt a moment ago. I smiled.
“I’m just going to the bathroom.”
When I came out, the wall of windows had disappeared and the room opened to the outside. The air was already muggy, but a breeze blew off the water, cooling the dampness. Tristan stood at the balcony railing, still wearing nothing but tan cargo shorts, his bronzed, muscular back to me. Seeing him without a shirt gave me pause, for more than one reason. Of course, his body was absolutely delightful to look at . . . and touch . . . and kiss . . . and . . . Yeah, it’s quite distracting. But the muscular build also reminded me what he was made for. He might not have looked exactly like you’d imagine the ultimate soldier to look like—bulky and brawny beyond attraction—but the strength and power were obvious.
When I joined him, I found a cup of coffee, my manuscript in its folder, and a rose on the table. He handed me the cup and the rose. I took a sip of coffee then stuck my nose into the flower.
“Nice,” I said. “Thank you. But you do know you’re spoiling me.”
“I intend to. Every day. Forever.”
We stood against the railing in silence, arm in arm. I sipped my coffee while watching the waves crash on the beach. I could do this forever.
“So,” I finally said, “why would unpacking be a waste of time?”
“I don’t know that it is yet. We’ll find out tonight. We need to discuss some things, figure out some plans.”
“Like getting married?” I suggested, trying to sound offhand, but the excitement leaked through.
He smiled down at me. “Yes, that may be part of it, but we have more pressing issues to worry about.” His brows furrowed, and he frowned. “Just because you and I are good⁠—”
“Perfect,” I interjected.
“—doesn’t mean everything else is,” he finished, ignoring my correction.
“What’s going on?” His concern was contagious, reflected in my voice. He changed his expression, smiling again.
“We’ll get there soon enough. Let’s not ruin our time together right now, okay?” He picked up the folder with my manuscript in it and handed it to me. I flipped through it. Notes marked the margins on many of the pages. “You’re very talented.”
“So you liked it?” I asked. He nodded. “Really? Wait. You finished it already?”
He nodded again. The notes went through to the last page.
“Oh, no. That’s not good.”
His brows knitted with confusion. “I thought that meant it’s a page-turner.”
“A page-turner is good, but if you breeze right through it, it’s usually because it’s crappy writing.” My heart plummeted to my feet.
“Alexis, you’re being absurd. How old is your target reader?”
“Teens, I guess. Young Adult.”
“I think I have a few more years of reading experience than they do. It’s just right for them.” He looked at me earnestly. I let out a deep breath and nodded. “My only problem . . . a witch and a werewolf? Puh-lease.”
I’d expected him to tease me about that, so I just laughed as I put the manuscript back on the table.
“There’s no way a witch and a werewolf would fall in love . . . unless she put a spell on him or something.”
I shrugged. “It could happen. It’s my world. I’m making it up, and that’s their story.”
“Hmph. Still . . .” He rolled his eyes mockingly. “I admit you did very well at making it believable. Your characters felt real, even with all the good qualities that don’t quite go along with canon.”
I grinned, ecstatic that even Tristan liked my characters. “Mom gave me some fantastic ideas for them in the beginning. It’s almost like she knew them before I did.”
He raised his eyebrows, giving me a significant look that I couldn’t understand. It cleared almost immediately. “So, what’s next? A normal human story, I hope.”
I braced myself for the teasing I knew was about to come. “Well . . . I’ve kind of been thinking of something a little different than this one . . . like a human falling in love with a vampire.”
“A good vampire, I assume. One that drinks donated blood?”
I smiled slyly. “Not exactly. I haven’t decided who’s human and who’s vampire yet, but they each want to kill the other . . . at least at first.”
He gave me a dark look, and I shrugged.
“Well, they say to write what you know.” I bit my lip, waiting for his reaction. Shouldn’t have said that, stupid.
He just shook his head, chuckled, and wrapped his arms around me. “You know, only you could bring love into the most unlikely situations.”
“Everybody has at least a little good in them, so it’s possible.”
My face pressed against his chest, so I couldn’t see his expression, but I felt his muscles tense. His tone was dark and serious. “Not everybody.”
Even with his warm body around me and the sun beating on us, a chill ran up my spine. He would know. I decided to let the subject drop.
“So, what do we do with the rest of the day?” I asked.
Tristan suddenly jumped toward the table and slammed his hand on the folder containing the manuscript a moment before a strong gust of wind blew around us. I looked up to find dark, steel-gray clouds building up and pushing toward the beach from the other side of the house. The typical afternoon storm rolled in quickly.
“Thank you!” I gasped. “How’d you know?”
“Heard it coming.”
We barely had everything inside when the wind picked up again. Tristan pushed a button to close the window-wall, then he took my hand and led me downstairs.
“Are you hungry? I picked up some croissants with the coffee. Chocolate, your favorite.”
I hadn’t realized it until then, but I was ravenous. “Sounds good. I hope you bought ten. I’m starving.”
He chuckled. “There should be enough to hold you over. Then I’ll shower and take you home so you can get cleaned up, too. Maybe by then the storm will have passed, and we can go for a short ride before tonight.”
“What’s going on tonight?” I asked as I lifted myself to sit on the counter.
“Like I said . . . plans to make, things to figure out.” He shrugged, downplaying it, but I knew by the look in his eyes it was serious.
“You’re holding back on me,” I said pointedly. He grimaced.
“You’re right. And I’m not going to do that anymore.” He took a deep breath and let it out slowly. “Ian’s little visit has more far-reaching consequences than you realize. Your safety is more at risk now than it ever has been. We need to decide what to do about that.”
“Oh,” I breathed. An onslaught of thoughts rushed through my head, giving me no time to think about each one as the next pushed it out: Are we moving again? What about school? What about my book? Can we still get married? Is Mom okay? Would they really challenge Tristan? Would he be okay? Those last three terrified me.
Tristan misinterpreted the look of fear I felt spreading across my face. He wrapped his arms around me and kissed the top of my head. “Don’t worry, you’ve been well protected. I won’t let anything happen to you. Why do you think I was at your house day after day, even when you wouldn’t talk to me? I couldn’t leave you alone, so vulnerable.”
While I was immersed in my own miserable world, there’d been much else going on I hadn’t even realized. And Tristan had put his own heart aside to protect me, even when I behaved so cruelly. I pushed my croissant away, my stomach in knots with heartache and worry. I leaned my forehead against his chest.
“What does this mean?” I finally asked. “What will happen? Can’t you see the best solution anyway?”
His body stiffened, and he didn’t answer at first. Then he said firmly, “It’s no longer an option.”
“Why not, if it’s the best one? What is it?” I looked up into his face. His eyes darkened.
“I won’t discuss it. It’s just not happening.” He walked away, his back to me. “We’ll figure something else out, all of us, tonight.”
I hopped down from the counter and went over to him. I wrapped my arms around his waist and pressed myself to his back.
“I trust you,” I whispered. “As long as you’ll be okay.”
His muscles relaxed, and he pulled my hands apart enough so he could turn around in the circle of my arms. He lifted my chin with his thumb.
“You don’t need to worry about me,” he said. “As long as you’re safe, I’ll be fine.”
He bent over and brushed his lips against mine.
“Now, I’m going to take a shower, and, as much as I’d rather you not, you need to get dressed.” He headed for the stairs, and I followed behind him.
“I could join you,” I offered, my insides warming at the thought.
“I’d love that . . . but, my love, I need your patience.”
My head fell in dejection, though I knew deep inside that my whole heart wasn’t into the idea. I wanted to wait, too.
“I promise you, though, it will be rewarded,” he added, and I smiled.
Something white lying by the baseboard caught my eye as we crossed the living room. I picked it up and realized it was a piece off one of the house models. I looked around the room and didn’t see any boxes large enough to contain the architectural renderings. I wondered what he did with them. As I looked back at the piece, I noticed it hadn’t just fallen off—it was broken.
“Tristan . . . ?” I looked up at him as he turned to me. “Where are your houses?”
His face darkened, and then he shrugged. “Gone,” he said flatly.
“What do you mean . . . gone?” I searched his face as a pit formed in my stomach with the thought of what might have happened to them. He obviously didn’t want to tell me.
“I . . . destroyed them,” he admitted quietly.
“Tristan! How could you?”
“I was angry at myself and decided I didn’t want them anymore. I wouldn’t need a dream home . . . without you to share it with.”
A long carving knife of shame pierced all the way through my heart and then twisted around inside my chest.
“I’m sorry!” I sprang up the stairs and threw my arms around him. “I’m sorry I doubted you. I’m sorry I hurt you. I’m sorry . . .”
“You had every right⁠—”
“No, I didn’t. How could I doubt your love? I knew it all along, and I was just mad, acting like a child. And I hurt you . . .”
“You were hurt first. I hurt you. I should have been more up-front with you. I deserved it.”
“But it wasn’t you! I know that now. All you did was what was best for them . . . and you loved me. I’m just so sorry I was too proud and bullheaded to realize it sooner. I almost lost you,” I whispered miserably.
“But you didn’t,” he whispered back. “And now you know you love me and trust me fully.”
I nodded. He wiped the tears from my cheeks.
“So, we’re good.” He smiled warmly, and I nodded again. “Then let’s get past this and look forward, okay?”
I nodded a third time. He picked me up in a tight hug. I gave him a long kiss, hoping the depth of my love for him would flow through it. But I didn’t know if that was even possible. My love was so much more.
“We’ll do the next one together—our dream home,” he promised as we continued up the stairs hand in hand.
* * *
As we headed home from dinner that evening, Tristan drove the motorcycle right past the cottage to the dead end at the beach.
“Come on. We have just enough time to watch the sun set,” he said.
The sun already hovered halfway behind the water, and we sat in silence as it finished its descent.
“Listen,” Tristan finally said, “we’ll need to go soon, but before we do, I need to tell you something.”
Somberness and foreboding filled his tone. My stomach tightened automatically.
“Why do I have this feeling I won’t like what happens tonight?” I asked.
“I think, in the end, you’ll be fine. First, though, there will be some surprises.”
“More surprises? How much more can there be?” I moaned and threw my head into his lap. I lay there curled up, my head resting on his legs. “I don’t know that I can take any more.”
“So you don’t want to know all these big secrets you haven’t been allowed to know before? You don’t want to know who you are?”
I shot up and stared at him. “Seriously?”
He looked at me thoughtfully. “Yes, I think you’ll be learning quite a bit tonight. I don’t see how it can be kept from you any longer. There’s too much at risk. So . . . I want you to know, no matter what you hear, regardless of how . . . shocking . . . it is, I absolutely, unconditionally, undeniably love you. No matter what. I’ve known it all since before you were born and knew what I was getting into, okay? And I would’ve told you already, but, like their plan for us, it wasn’t my place. Do you understand?”
I narrowed my eyes. “Um, no. Was that supposed to make sense?”
He chuckled. “I guess it probably doesn’t right now. Come here.”
He pulled me sideways onto his lap and held me close, brushing his lips across my cheek. He murmured into my ear, “I love you, no matter what. You are everything to me, and nothing will come between us as long as I can help it. We are together forever.”
“I can understand that.” I found his lips with mine. He suddenly stopped kissing me, though, and cocked his head, then closed his eyes and let out a sigh.
“They’re ready for us.”
“How do you know? And who’s ‘they’?” I asked as we headed back to the bike. “I thought it was just Sophia.”
“You’ll see in about three minutes.”
Three minutes later we walked into Mom’s cottage. I stopped in the archway between the foyer and the living room, surprised to see all the people there—Mom, a woman who looked just like her, and two men. I sensed extreme goodness from all of them as they looked at Tristan and me and smiled approvingly.
The lady who looked nearly like Mom’s twin, dressed for a ball in a white, shimmery gown, rose gracefully from Mom’s usual chair. She had all the same features as Mom and looked to be in her late twenties, but, somehow, seemed much older. “Hello, Alexis, I am your grandmother.”
I jumped at the “sound.” Because she hadn’t spoken. Her lips didn’t move! I’d heard it in my head, not with my ears. Somebody snickered. Tristan squeezed my hand.
“Mother, she wasn’t ready for that,” Mom said.
“Sorry, dear,” my grandmother said aloud. Her real voice, similar to the one in my head, was smooth and luxurious, like velvet, with a foreign accent I couldn’t place. It seemed familiar, though. I heard it in my head again. “You are just as beautiful as they have told me. Just wait until the Ang’dora. You will be magnificent.”
I stood there awkwardly, forcing a smile on the outside while internally freaking out. My grandmother’s a telepath!
She held her hand out to me. I didn’t move. Tristan gave me a little nudge and whispered, “It’s okay.”
Without letting go of his hand, I took the two steps over to her. She clasped my other hand in both of hers and closed her eyes. Silence filled the room as everyone watched. I had no idea what she did, but a warm, pleasurable sensation washed over me. She smiled and then opened her eyes.
“Yes, magnificent,” she said aloud. She looked at Mom. “She is amazing, Sophia.”
Mom beamed. “I told you. Probably the best in many, many centuries?”
“Yes, I think you are correct.” My grandmother sat back down. Her body moved with the majesty and grace of a lead ballerina. She belonged in a palace, not in our little cottage.
“Alexis, this is your grandmother, Katerina. You can call her Rina,” Mom said. She held her hand first toward a tall, broad man with hair in cornrows standing perfectly erect behind Rina, then at the man sitting next to her on the couch. “That is Solomon, and this is Stefan.”
Stefan barely looked at me. Although he radiated goodness, the way he hid his eyes behind his dark, curly hair gave me the impression he felt guilty about something. I wondered what it was. He seemed vaguely familiar but I didn’t know why. I couldn’t remember ever meeting him, but I knew his name from just the day before. He’d spoken to Tristan recently, from what I’d heard on the speakerphone. I now placed Rina’s voice—she’d been the woman on the phone.
“These are some of the Amadis council members,” Mom continued. “Our family line has always led the Amadis, with advice and guidance from the council.”
Owen popped his head in the door then and called, “All’s clear.”
“Thank you, Owen,” Rina said. “Please continue your watch.”
I threw Mom a look.
“Yes, Owen is part of the Amadis, but he’s not on the council. He’s a protector.” She smiled. “He’s your protector.”
Chapter 21
CHAPTER 21
My protector—as in bodyguard? Why do I need a protector? And am I the only one in the dark here? I must have stiffened because Tristan stepped behind me and circled his arm around my waist. “Relax, my love.”
“You said Owen was normal,” I accused.
“Not exactly. I said Owen’s not like us, and he’s not. He’s Amadis, but . . .”
“Owen is part of the society, but not the family,” Mom finished for him.
Tristan nodded, then pulled me over to the loveseat that had been in my room. Someone had brought it out here, and as we sat down, it felt like the focal point of the room as everyone scrutinized us.
“My darling, Alexis,” Rina said, “you are probably wondering what we are all doing here?”
I felt like a child in the principal’s office, not because I’d misbehaved, but because something was wrong that the adults needed to explain. I took a deep breath and nodded. “That’d be a good start.”
“Our primary concern is your immediate safety,” she said, “but for you to understand our discussions, you must be better informed. At our direction, Sophia and Tristan have only told you what you needed to know. However, recent events have shown you deserve to know more now, rather than waiting for the Ang’dora.
“We are the Amadis. All of us are part of the Amadis society. Solomon and Stefan are members of the council. You, your mother, myself, and Tristan, too, are direct descendants of the original Amadis family bloodline. Women in our direct bloodline have ruled the Amadis since its beginning over two millennia ago. I have been the matriarch for over a half-century. At some point in the future, Sophia will inherit it from me and then you from her. There was a time when we thought our existence was all but extinct, until you miraculously arrived. You are full of such promise, and I am convinced the Ang’dora will bring you powers unseen since our earliest leaders.”
I felt my eyes grow wider with every sentence Rina spoke. She paused now, not only so she could take a breath herself, but so I could have a moment to process what she’d said. It was already too much. Royalty? Unseen powers? Me? Tristan squeezed my hand, and my muscles loosened. I hadn’t realized I’d become so tense.
Mom excused herself to get us all a glass of wine. I didn’t know if that was such a good idea for me, but I did know I could really use it.
“Can I ask a question?” I inquired while we waited for Mom. Rina nodded. “Actually, two. What, exactly, are the Amadis? And why are the Daemoni our enemies?”
Rina nodded again. “We are the protectors of souls. The Daemoni try to destroy human souls; we fight to save them. They are full of hatred; we are full of love. They are ruled by Hell; we are ruled by the Angels. They would like us to cease existing so they can rule the Earth. It is our responsibility to prevent that from occurring. You will learn the whole story and know our full purpose, and yours specifically, one day, but not now. Is that enough?”
I nodded reluctantly. It really wasn’t enough—I’d hoped to get more—but I was too intimidated to push it.
Rina continued where she’d left off. “As soon as we realized your righteous qualities and your strength, we had hope. We also knew our chances would be strengthened if you had a child—a daughter, of course—fathered by the most powerful male with Amadis blood. Tristan had recently come to us, but we knew, even when he was not sure himself, he would become one of us. Most of us knew when you were only an infant that your souls were meant for each other. The Angels created you specifically for each other, the strongest connection two souls can have.”
She paused as Mom handed each of us a glass of wine.
“There is only one problem with this heavenly match,” Rina continued. “The Daemoni would like to prevent it. Firstly, they still desire for Tristan to return to them. They promise him a kingdom, but we all know he would be under their rule. They believe him to be a possession. They have time and again tried to bring him back, using an assortment of tactics, from promises of greatness to violent force. Tristan refuses.”
I saw him nod out of the corner of my eye. I had almost pushed him back to them. I could never let that happen again. I squeezed his hand.
“So, secondly, they seek revenge. If they cannot have their ultimate warrior, then they certainly do not want us to have him. They seek revenge against Tristan for betraying them and against the Amadis in general for taking him.
“Thirdly, this match will result in our family’s, and therefore our society’s, continuance. The Daemoni would like to see us extinguished. Add to that, young Alexis, the fact that they have always targeted the youngest Amadis daughter, and you can see we have a complex problem on our hands.”
Tension filled the room like a dense fog as we sipped our wine. Well, everyone else sipped. I drained mine, but didn’t expect it to have much effect on me. Tristan put his arm around my shoulder and pulled me close to him. That calmed me more than the wine did.
“We need to consider this from both an immediate and a long-term perspective,” Solomon said. His deep, seductive voice, with a foreign accent different than Rina’s, matched his attractive, yet exotic face—nearly white skin but, somehow, with a dark undertone, and features that looked African or possibly Caribbean. “The Daemoni know about our plan for the two of you, and that it is being executed. The question is what they will do about it.”
Stefan spoke next. Even his voice—smooth, clear, authoritative—sounded familiar, but I still couldn’t place him. “Through our reconnaissance, we have heard them discuss four options, and they are not yet decided whether to pursue any in the immediate future.”
“Explain the options so we can all understand,” Rina said.
Stefan spoke matter-of-factly. “First, they could try to kill Tristan.”
My heart jumped against my chest. I instinctively shifted my body in front of Tristan and put my arm across him in protection, shaking my head. As if I can do anything. Tristan pulled me back to him, his arms wrapped around me like a human straightjacket.
“Relax and listen,” he murmured.
Stefan glanced at us briefly and continued. “They believe this could prevent another Amadis daughter and would give them their revenge for Tristan’s betrayal. However, they are not fond of this idea. They still have hope in Tristan.”
Solomon shook his head, the long cornrows, some pulled back into a ponytail, swinging. “They do not have the means to kill him.”
I relaxed with this statement, and Tristan let go of me. He leaned forward, his elbows on his knees.
“It would have to be an ambush. Lucas is the only one who might have a chance single-handedly, but he wouldn’t risk that,” he said. He and Mom exchanged looks I didn’t understand. He shrugged. “They’ve tried to kill me before. It is not my life we need to worry about.”
“Until there is a daughter, we need you,” Solomon said harshly, but he followed with an exquisite smile of gleaming white teeth. I wasn’t sure how to take him, and, I thought, that’s the impression he intended.
“There are other options for offspring besides me,” Tristan muttered. I threw him a dirty look.
“Tristan, daughter or not, we are concerned for your life,” Rina said. “But you are right. This is status quo. Go on, Stefan.”
Stefan said their next option was to kill me. “This would definitely prevent the bloodline from continuing and would give them revenge on Tristan by killing his mate. In their twisted way, they believe this could bring him back in remorse.”
For some reason, I didn’t have nearly as strong a reaction to my murder as I did to Tristan’s.
“They can only kill her if they are provoked. They must have justifiable reason,” Rina said adamantly, lifting her chin.
“Yes, according to ancient law, that is, ultimately, the only right they have, but they could still try,” Solomon said.
“They know it would mean a major battle,” Stefan said. “They are mostly concerned about fighting Sophia and Tristan, though—two Amadis daughters and their own warrior could be a major victory or a terrible defeat for them.”
I looked at Mom, sick at the thought of her fighting these monsters to protect me. She glanced at me, seemingly unconcerned until she saw my face.
She came over to me, squatted in front of me to look me directly in the eye, and said firmly, “Don’t you worry about us. We are just discussing how the Daemoni see it. They will not get to us. We have the best and highest protection.”
I nodded, trying to look calm, but I shivered anyway.
“Let us take a moment for a breath,” Rina said, and then she looked at Tristan. He stood up, grabbed my hands, and pulled me up. I wondered if she’d communicated telepathically.
“Come on. Let’s get some fresh air.” He led me through the kitchen and out the back door.
The evening air still felt clammy and heavy against my skin, but I felt a sense of freedom as I drew it in. The fragrances of humid air combined with freshly mown grass, jasmine, and magnolias from the neighbor’s yard behind us filled my nose and throat. I took several cleansing breaths, trying to focus on steadying my pounding heart.
“You okay?” Tristan asked after a few minutes. He leaned casually against the house as if we’d just been discussing what new toy to buy rather than our own demise.
“Yeah, freakin’ wonderful.” I gave him a weak smile and walked over to him. I lifted my hands to the back of his neck, stretched up on my toes, and tilted my head back. “Make me okay, please.”
He kissed me, and a sense of calmness washed over me with his scent and taste and touch. I inhaled deeply for an extra dose.
“Okay,” I said.
Mom handed me a glass of ice water as I returned to the loveseat. I emptied the glass, the icy liquid light and refreshing, washing away the thick, bitter coating the wine had left in my mouth and throat. I finally nodded at Rina, who’d been watching me expectantly.
“Okay, Stefan, please proceed with the other options,” she said.
The third option, according to Stefan, was business as usual—the Daemoni would mostly leave me alone until they had Provocation. The way they all said “Provocation,” I could hear the capital P, as in it must be official.
“And that leads us to the fourth option,” Stefan said. “They capture Alexis to bring Tristan to them, using her as bait. This appears to be the most dangerous option for us. They would not have Alexis’s blood on their hands, so they do not see this as a violation. They also have a strong desire to have both Alexis and Tristan alive, but in their hands, seeing the same great potential we do, but working for them.”
Everyone in the room reacted to this statement. Solomon hissed. Mom and Rina gasped. Tristan swore under his breath. I didn’t understand.
“I thought their natural instinct is to kill me. How could they keep me alive?” I asked. “And why would they want to, once they had Tristan?”
They all exchanged meaningful looks I didn’t understand. Rina nodded at Mom, and Mom sighed, closing her eyes and pinching the bridge of her nose. Tristan put his arms around me. Mom eventually came over to us and knelt on the floor in front of me, while everyone else stared at the floor. Something horrible was coming.
“Honey, it’s time you knew something about your . . . father,” Mom said quietly.
“You mean sperm donor,” I corrected. “I don’t have a father.”
Her eyes dropped to the floor, and she spoke so quietly, it was barely more than a whisper. “The last time I met up with Tristan, he was with Lucas, their leader. After Tristan, Lucas was—is now—the Daemoni’s most powerful warrior. They were on a mission to kill me, but not in their normal, direct manner. Tristan thought they should act like they wanted to leave the Daemoni, become close to me, build my trust, and then go in for the kill. Tristan really did want to leave, and I was able to help him and bring him to the Amadis. But . . .” Her voice wavered, and a tear slid down her cheek. And then another. I couldn’t remember if I’d ever seen Mom cry before. Her voice filled with grief and longing. “But I couldn’t help Lucas. I tried so hard, did everything I could. I thought loving him, giving myself completely to him would do it. No one could have ever guessed . . . I’d already changed over and no one had ever conceived . . .”
“What? What are you saying?” I shook my head, knowing already.
“Lucas is your . . .”
Whop! The breath flew out of me. I felt like I’d been punched in the stomach.
“I . . . I . . . I’m  Daemoni?” I choked on the words. A heavy weight pressed down on my chest, making my breaths shallow. Tristan’s words from long ago echoed in my ears . . . pure evil . . . real demons . . . soldiers and followers of Satan himself. It flows through my blood? I jumped up and paced the living room, shaking my arms out, as if I could throw the hideousness off of me. “No! No, no, no!”
“You are Amadis, through and through. Do not forget that!” Rina’s voice thundered in my head. I stopped and glared at her through the tears in my eyes. She spoke aloud with calm surety, “Alexis, you are not Daemoni. You have Lucas’s blood, but you are completely Amadis. All of your powers, all of your qualities, everything that makes you one of our most powerful descendants yet, are all good and righteous.”
“How do you know that? How do you know for sure?” I demanded, throwing my arms up in emphasis.
“We evaluated you as a baby. I felt it again when you first walked in . . . when I took your hand, I assessed you. The evil is fully suppressed; I can hardly feel anything.”
I didn’t feel any better. The questions flying through my head panicked me.
“And what about when I change over? Do you know for sure I’ll be like you? That I’ll be good? What if I don’t change? Or what if the evil strengthens with the Ang’dora? Do you have those answers?” The thought of being anything different than myself or Mom . . . anything evil . . . terrified me. I choked on the idea as if it were a physical object lodged in my throat.
Rina shook her head and admitted, “No, we do not have those answers. You are unique. But your powers are so strong, we are confident you will be perfect . . . magnificent.”
“You might not be here otherwise,” she said in my head. I recoiled, startled.
They would have killed me.
“Quite possibly,” she answered silently. I stared at her, not realizing she could hear my thoughts, and she nodded. That put things into perspective. If I was evil, I would’ve been a threat to them, but they didn’t feel that. In fact, they expected me to lead them in some distant future.
I fell back onto the loveseat and dropped my head into my hands. Tristan rubbed my back. Why isn’t he mortified? Then I remembered he’d already known and still loved me, even came looking for me. I realized why he’d been so adamant earlier about telling me he loved me no matter what. Of course, he was Daemoni. I turned my head toward him.
“Ha!” I barked hysterically. “I guess we really are perfect for each other.”
He rolled his eyes.
I tried to tell myself I was physically no different than I’d been twenty minutes ago, just more knowledgeable. I closed my eyes, focused on that thought, and tried to control my breathing and pulse.
“There you go,” Rina’s voice soothed in my head.
“Can we take another break?” I finally asked when I felt control.
I refilled my glass with ice water and chugged the entire glass, though the cold made my head hurt, then I escaped to the bathroom. I splashed cold water on my face and caught my reflection in the mirror. Do I look any different? I couldn’t help but wonder. I stared into my brown eyes, looking so much like Mom’s and Rina’s, but wondering if they really were. As I studied myself in the mirror, looking for signs of Daemoni, my stomach heaved, and I barely caught the toilet as I vomited. The water mixed with the red wine looked like blood swirling in the white porcelain bowl. I wished it was the Daemoni blood pouring out of me.
I sat on the floor, breathing deeply. I really wanted to take a hot shower, thinking soap, scalding water, and a lot of scrubbing would remove any evil from my system. I’m being irrational. I’m no different than I was. I just need to get over this. Someone knocked on the door, and before I could answer, it opened and closed as Mom squeezed into the bathroom with me. I scooted against the bathtub and she slid down to the floor next to me.
“Are you okay?” she asked quietly.
“I think so,” I whispered, a half-truth.
She wrapped her arms around me. “I would say I’m sorry, but I’m really not, because I have you.”
I didn’t know what to say, so I hugged her back, and we held each other for several minutes, until there was another knock on the door. It opened slightly, catching against Mom’s foot, and Rina slipped in. She closed the door behind her and leaned against it. She studied our faces.
“You two have a very close relationship. I am glad to see that,” Rina said. She smiled sadly at Mom. “I am sorry we never had that.”
“Me, too,” Mom said, but she waved her hand in dismissal. “It was a different time then. We had different challenges to deal with.”
“Well, we all face the same obstacles now.” Rina eyed us appreciatively. “Together we can overcome them. Nothing can thwart the power of the three of us together.”
She held her hands out to us, and we each took one. She was surprisingly strong—it shouldn’t have startled me but it did—and she lifted both of us to our feet. She put her arms around us. “We are Amadis! All of us.”
An unusual, powerful sensation charged through her arm into me. I instinctively knew at once it was Amadis power. And my body reacted positively to it, absorbing the warm and potent feeling into every cell. Yes, I AM Amadis. Rina smiled at me with that thought.
We stood there, three generations arm in arm, until someone else knocked on the door.
“We still have a lot to discuss,” Stefan said from the other side.
We all sighed, our moment over. Mom and Rina stepped out while I quickly rinsed my mouth with water and gargled with mouthwash. When I caught my reflection in the mirror again, I saw a new strength in my eyes. The same strength as in the eyes of my kin—Mom and Rina. Amadis power.
Chapter 22
CHAPTER 22
Tristan caught me in the hallway when I came out of the bathroom. He clasped my face in his hands and searched my eyes. I smiled.
“You’re okay.” It wasn’t a question.
“I’m perfect. You?”
“Perfect.” He brushed his lips against mine. I hoped the mouthwash did its job.
Solomon studied my face, and Stefan briefly looked at me as I sat down again. I nodded at them both, and their expressions relaxed. Solomon, especially, intimidated me, but I knew he was good, and Stefan radiated power, a good power, nearly as appealing as Rina’s. It still bugged me, though, how he felt familiar. And, even more, how he had a hard time bringing his eyes to meet mine.
He picked up where we left off . . . before I got punched in the stomach.
“As I was saying, the Daemoni believe it would be useful to have both Alexis and Tristan under their power. With Lucas’s blood and Amadis royalty, Alexis will be nearly—if not equally—as powerful as Tristan. They believe there is a chance Alexis could come to their side, and Tristan would follow her.”
“Which I would do,” Tristan muttered.
“No, we will not let that happen,” Rina said. “Tristan, what do you see as the best solution?”
He stiffened, and his jaw clamped audibly. Repeating what he’d told me earlier, he said through gritted teeth, “It is not an option.”
“If it is the best, then we must know it so we can all consider it,” Solomon said.
Tristan glared at him. His voice held that steely undertone as he spoke. “The best solution for Alexis’s safety and long-term survival of the Amadis is for me to go back to the Daemoni. They’ll leave you all alone for a long time. Alexis will have to find another mate.”
“NO!” I bellowed.
“Absolutely not!” Rina said.
“Not an option,” Solomon agreed. “What is the next one?”
Tristan chuckled grimly. “Definitely not an option. Alexis and I both go to them. They leave the Amadis alone. There’s a chance we can still be together, have a child, and possibly escape.”
Mom and Rina gasped.
“Not an option,” Solomon repeated harshly. “Give us something we can actually do.”
“You wanted to know.” Tristan took a deep breath. “Besides those two, I really can’t come up with anything except protect Alexis and fight if and when necessary. If they go with any of their options, I believe it’ll be that last one. Taking Alexis, and me, for themselves serves their purpose the most.”
“I agree,” Stefan said. “We need to ensure they cannot even get close to Alexis. It will be much easier to abduct her than to kill her.”
“Then that is what we will do,” Rina said decisively. “We have Tristan, Sophia, and Owen here. Solomon, make arrangements for at least one more protector at all times. Stefan, continue your reconnaissance and stay on top of their plans. And keep watch on everything here.”
“I do not think they will act immediately,” Stefan said. “It will be a difficult maneuver, very risky for them. They may never follow through on it.”
“There are always rogues,” Tristan said.
“And Vanessa,” Mom added. The name ringed in my head as if I should know it, but I couldn’t place it.
“That night wasn’t her first time here,” Stefan said. “She’d been here last autumn, but had not acted. She must have been gathering intelligence.”
“She was taunting,” Tristan muttered, rubbing his chin, but then he shrugged. “Vanessa could become a problem, but I can handle her. Rogues are a bigger threat. It’s their nature to disobey and do their own thing. And they may take one of the other options.”
“You need more protection, too, Tristan, in case they do take another path,” Rina responded. “You are planning on marrying Alexis, no?”
“Yes,” Tristan answered.
“You should do so immediately,” Solomon said. “Marrying royalty will bind you closer to the Amadis. You will become a member of the royal family, and they cannot attack royalty.”
“That will be done on our terms,” Tristan said firmly, squeezing my hand.
Solomon narrowed his eyes. “The sooner the better.”
Rina nodded. “You can delay your legal wedding if you need time to prepare, but marriage vows should be exchanged before the Amadis sooner rather than later to strengthen that bond.”
“Let’s do it now. I’m ready,” I said.
Mom gasped. “Alexis!”
Tristan glared at me. “We’ll discuss this later.”
“Yes, we’ll discuss it first,” Mom said.
“If it helps you . . .” I said to Tristan, ignoring Mom. Like Tristan had told her many months ago, this was out of her hands now.
“That is not the reason we’ll be getting married,” he growled. I knew that tone and decided we wouldn’t argue this in front of everyone.
“We will discuss this,” I promised and added, “sooner, not later.”
“Alexis, you need to thoroughly understand the Amadis union,” Rina said. “We believe your souls were created for each other by the Angels. An Amadis marriage between true soul mates is an Angels’ covenant that unites two souls into one. We have not had such a union in centuries. If we are right about your souls, you and Tristan essentially will become two halves of a whole, and you will have a bond like no one currently on this Earth has experienced or can ever understand. We ourselves do not fully comprehend the connection, but any attempts at breaking an Angels’ covenant could destroy one or both of you, if not your physical bodies, then your very souls.”
“Oh,” I said as the magnitude of our bond sunk in, but then I shrugged. “I’m still ready.”
Solomon beamed, and Tristan grimaced. Is he not ready for that? We definitely needed to talk. For now, Rina changed the subject. She didn’t have to hear Tristan’s thoughts to know he wouldn’t budge at the moment—his body language made it clear.
“I know it will not be easy, but you must not ever be alone,” she said, her poignant gaze leveled on me. “You are their primary target, and you are also our most vulnerable. Until the Ang’dora, you will not be able to defend yourself. Do not worry about Sophia or Tristan or any of the others. We can all protect ourselves and you. You focus on keeping yourself safe, which means staying with one of us at all times.”
“I understand.” I swallowed hard when I thought about the only activity I did alone—write. I mumbled it under my breath . . . I thought. “I guess my book is out of the question now.”
“That’s absurd,” Mom said. “You will finish that book, and we will get it published.”
“Yes, you need to move forward with the books,” Rina agreed. I stared at her in disbelief. “Your writing and storytelling ability is one of your special gifts, Alexis, and we would never ask you not to use a gift. We know it will be used for good.”
“She should use a nom de plume,” Tristan said. “It probably wouldn’t do any good, but it could divert attention from her.”
“No, we want the Daemoni to know,” Solomon said. “They will feel threatened by the boldness.”
I felt uncomfortable with the way they spoke, sensing a layer of meaning I couldn’t grasp hovering under the surface. Tristan didn’t help.
“I don’t like it,” he said. “It’s too risky.”
“It is necessary,” Rina said with finality. She spoke in my head, “Your purpose, for now, is to write your stories. They will help us. That is all you need to know at this time.”
I nodded. Although completely confused, I could easily accept that writing was my purpose. In fact, I’d always felt it in my heart. And I was glad I had a way to serve them, even if I didn’t understand how—that I could do something besides sit around with a babysitter.
“She will continue with school, too,” Mom said firmly.
“Whatever is a part of her normal life, yes,” Rina agreed. “We cannot show any fear.”
“So we can stay here?” I asked hopefully.
“Yes, you are safe here, at least for now,” Stefan answered. “Tristan, keep your house. It is built like a fortress, and it will be a safe place should we need it. We would prefer you kept Alexis there with you.”
“We’ll work that out,” Tristan said. “We shouldn’t push anything too soon. She’ll be safe here with Sophia and protectors keeping watch.”
“Nonetheless, the sooner, the better,” Solomon said pointedly.
“If we act too quickly, they’ll only assume we’re pushing forward with the plan, and they’ll feel threatened by that,” Tristan said. “The more natural we are about it, the more time we take, the more time they think they have.”
“You should proceed in secrecy,” Solomon said. “The sooner there is a child⁠—”
“She’s too young!” Mom interrupted. “At least allow her to finish college.”
Solomon grunted.
“It is only a couple of years, darling,” Rina soothed, reaching back to pat his hand. “That is nothing to us.”
I squirmed in discomfort as they discussed plans for my future—my marriage, my child—as if I weren’t there. Though nearly everything about the Amadis was still as murky as the Everglades swamps, I saw a few things with perfect clarity. A future I didn’t like flashed before me, showing me as a puppet. If I didn’t speak up now, I’d be handing them the strings forever.
“Tristan and I will know when it’s time to take each next step. We will determine that,” I said clearly and firmly. “On our terms.”
Everyone stared at me in mild shock. Except Tristan. He grinned widely. A smile eventually spread across Rina’s face, too.
“Yes, you will be magnificent,” she said in my head.
And that was it. We said our goodbyes, then Solomon hooked Rina’s arm in his, and they disappeared into the night—early morning, actually—returning to wherever they came from. I wondered where that was, and I wondered if they were mates. Despite how much I’d learned tonight, I still knew so little.
“Stay together tonight?” Tristan asked me when we had a moment alone. I nodded. “Here or my place?”
I felt physically and emotionally exhausted and didn’t want to go anywhere, but I remembered my broken bed and frowned. “Your place, definitely.”
As we pulled out of the driveway, I watched Stefan and Mom on the front porch as they turned to go inside, still discussing plans for my protection, I assumed. Stefan stroked his square jaw and chin thoughtfully. In a strangely familiar way. In a matter of two seconds, it all came back to me.
Sheffie!
Sheffie who took me to the park, to the zoo, and out for ice cream. Sheffie who drank my invisible tea, sang lullabies at bedtime, and made the best French toast in the world. Sheffie who took me for a carousel ride when it was closed and somehow made it go, playing lively carnival music, my horse sliding up and down as I squealed with delight and he stood next to me, making sure I didn’t fall off. Sheffie who loved me. Loved me like a dad. Or so I’d thought.
And then I remembered I had seen Mom cry before. Once.
“Stop. Tristan, stop!” I smacked his shoulder. He looked back at me. “Stop! Now!”
He stopped the bike and cut the engine at the bottom of the driveway. Somehow I managed to scramble off the seat and nearly run up the front walk to the house. Mom and Stefan paused just inside the door and turned toward me.
“You son of a bitch!” I screamed. And before I knew what I was doing, my hand slapped Stefan’s face with a loud smack. “That’s for what you did to my mom. And this one’s for me!”
I raised and swung my hand again, but it was caught in midair.
“What the hell?” Tristan asked with bewilderment.
I stared at Stefan as my chest rose and fell with anger.
“You want to know why I had such trust issues?” I fumed through burning tears. “You want to know what started it all? Ask him!”
“Stefan?” Tristan still sounded confused.
“Yes! But he was Sheffie to me. And he was the first one to leave and break my heart.”
And I knew it was true when Stefan lowered his head and sighed sadly. That’s why he couldn’t look me in the eye all night. That’s why I could feel his guilty conscience.
“You left us. You left me! You were the closest thing I ever had to a dad, and you left me!”
“Lexi, my love.” Tristan pulled me into his arms, and I pressed my face into his chest. “I think you’re confused . . .”
“No. No, she’s not,” Stefan said, his voice full of quiet grief. “She remembers right.”
I blinked away the burn in my eyes to look at him and remembered him clearly now, although I had only been four or five years old the last time I saw him.
“You were the only boyfriend who cared about me. Who really cared. Not just because I was around and fun to play with. Not to impress Mom. Or so I thought. I thought you really loved me.”
“I did love you,” Stefan said quietly. “I still do.”
“But you left. And you never came back.”
“I am so sorry.” And I could hear it in his voice. My anger broke, and all I felt was the sadness renewed.
“Honey, Stefan was never really a boyfriend. He was our protector then,” Mom said. “Eventually, he had to move on to a new assignment. He had to go.”
“But you cried when he left, too.”
“I cried for you,” she said. “Your little heart broke, and you just couldn’t understand.”
“I deeply regretted doing that to you,” Stefan said. “As you got older, I hoped you had just forgotten.”
I shook my head. “I didn’t forget. I didn’t remember your face, but I never forgot how much I loved you and how much I cried when you left. I thought I did something wrong.”
“It was nothing you did. I didn’t have a choice, and when Sophia told me how hurt you were, we decided it was best for me to stay away. I couldn’t be reliable enough for you.” Stefan held his arms open. “Please forgive me?”
I could see sincerest remorse in his dark eyes, and I somehow knew deep within that he’d never meant to hurt me. Maybe it was the Amadis goodness emanating from him. I didn’t know how or why—perhaps the passage of time to heal the wounds or the fact I’d just survived the worst loss, if only for a couple weeks, I’d ever experienced—but I couldn’t help but forgive him immediately. I left Tristan’s arms and fell into Stefan’s.
“Sheffie,” I murmured into his chest.
“Ali-oop,” he whispered, stroking my hair. I’d forgotten his nickname for me and giggled through my tears. “I am so sorry.”
I nodded. “I know now. I’m sorry I slapped you.”
“I deserved it.” He held me for another moment then gently pushed me back. “I think you need to get some rest now.”
I took a deep breath and stepped back to Tristan. He wrapped his arm around my waist, and I sagged against him. I’d spent every bit of emotional energy I had today, and that last bit broke me. I was absolutely exhausted. I didn’t even know how we made it back to Tristan’s house without me falling off the back of the bike.
“You’re amazing,” Tristan said as he half-carried me up the stairs to his room. My head lolled against his side, my eyelids drooping.
“How?” I asked through my grogginess.
“You’re so forgiving. I think I suffered more for what Stefan did to you than he did.”
I cupped my hand around his face. “I’m sorry you had to deal with my issues. You did take the brunt of it all, and I love you for that. But I believe Stefan did suffer. I could see it in his eyes. Life’s too short to hold grudges against people you love.”
Tristan chuckled, and even through the exhaustion, I understood.
“Even for us, my sweet Tristan. Love is just too precious.”
* * *
“You are such a tease,” Tristan admonished the next morning.
I widened my eyes and looked at him innocently as he pulled a pair of jeans out of a box and hung them up. “What? I’m just looking for some clothes.”
“In my closet?”
I smiled impishly. I’d just stepped out of the shower and had a towel wrapped around me, water drops beaded on my skin, and my hair still dripped. I had panties on already, but he didn’t know that. I was being a tease.
“Maybe I like wearing your shirts.” I found a plain white T-shirt and pulled it on with one arm while holding my towel with the other. As I walked out of the closet, I let the towel fall in the doorway as the T-shirt slid slowly down to my thighs. I could feel his eyes on me as I left, and I grinned to myself.
I went back to the bathroom to brush my wet hair. It soaked through the front of the white shirt, making it transparent, and I debated how mean I wanted to be. But when I looked up into the mirror, I saw Tristan behind me in the doorway, watching me with his arms crossed.
“Why are you doing this to me?” he growled.
“What?” I played innocent again. He was behind me in an instant, his arms wrapped around me and his face buried in the crook of my neck.
“You’re so damn irresistible.”
“Oh. Well, you do that to me all the time. All you have to do is smile and wink. I’m just fighting fair.”
“This is hardly fair,” he murmured.
His hands slowly moved down my body as he kissed and sucked my neck. I leaned back into him, feeling his powerful, warm body tense against my back. I put my hands over his and pulled his left hand up, across my body to my right breast while his right hand traveled down my bare thigh and slowly up the inside of it. I grasped his hand and pulled it away just before he reached the top, my whole body zinging.
“Hardly fair,” I breathed. He pulled back and groaned in frustration as I turned around and hoisted myself to sit on the counter. I hooked my fingers in his jeans waistband and pulled him closer, wrapping my legs around his waist. I trailed my hands slowly up his abs and chest, up to his face, where I held him. “We don’t have to do this to ourselves, you know. We could probably be married tonight or tomorrow, at least under the Amadis.”
He closed his eyes and sighed. “Why are you suddenly in such a rush?”
“Because I love you, I’m going to spend the rest of my life with you anyway, and I want to be your wife.”
He smiled at that last word, but didn’t open his eyes. “Not just because you want my body?”
“Well, that, too,” I admitted. I slid my hands across his chest again.
He opened his eyes, braced my face gently, and said, “You are incorrigible!”
He stomped out of the bathroom and sat hard on the bed, his head falling into his hands. I hopped down and followed.
“What’s wrong with me wanting to make love to you?” I asked.
“Three days ago you hated me,” he muttered into his hands.
My mouth fell open. “I never hated you!”
I threw myself back on the bed and stared at the ceiling.
“You didn’t want anything to do with me, and now you’re ready to rush off and commit yourself for life. ‘A bond like no other.’ A covenant that can’t be broken. Ever. Don’t you get it?”
I shot off the bed and stood in front of him, lifting his face with my hands and holding his eyes with mine. “Yes, I get it. My soul’s already yours anyway, though, so you’re damn right I want to commit myself. I made up my mind, and I’m ready now. I know you are, too. If there was ever a time you would’ve hurt me, it would’ve been the other night. You can handle it now. So what are you waiting for? Are you having commitment issues? Do you have a problem with this bond or the covenant?”
Pain flickered in his eyes, as if I’d slapped him. “Of course not. I already knew about it. I just don’t want you feeling like you have to rush into anything. You’re only nineteen!”
I threw my hands in the air. “Is that your argument? My age? Does it matter how old I am if we already know we’re together forever?”
“I’m just saying there’s plenty of time. Don’t feel rushed because of lust or because you think it’ll be safer for me.”
“We could have sex right now, and I wouldn’t change my mind. And, yes, I would feel better if I knew you had every protection possible. Even if you don’t think you need it, it would make me feel better. You are my life, and the thought of losing you . . .” My breath hitched. “. . . horrifies me! I need you, Tristan. Whatever binds us closer together, I’ll do. Now. Before it’s too late.”
He pulled me into his arms and brushed his lips across my jaw. He lowered his voice to the loveliest of tones. “Be patient, my love. We’re not doing this out of fear or threats or others’ demands. We’ll know when the time is right. Our terms.”
I sighed with frustration. “If we’re making the decision, it is on our terms. But I’ve made my decision, and now it’s up to you. So I guess now it’s on your terms.”
I didn’t like giving that to him, but I knew he wouldn’t like it either.
“Alexis,” he growled.
I ignored him. I picked up my bag and went into the bathroom, closing the door this time. I thought I heard something hit the wall.
Chapter 23
CHAPTER 23
Over the next several weeks, I concentrated on summer classes and putting the finishing touches on my book. I felt the pressure of completing it, a big obstacle in setting our wedding date. After a couple weeks of teasing Tristan, hoping he would come around, I realized I frustrated myself just as much. So I gave it up and decided that holding off on nearly everything would make our wedding night that much better. I stopped spending the night with him, and as soon as the loving kisses became passionate and hands started exploring—his or mine—I cut it off. It was, admittedly, quite maddening.
“You are infuriating, you know that?” Tristan teased one night as we snuggled on the loveseat that had been returned to my room. “I liked it better when you threw yourself at me.”
I laughed. “Shouldn’t have complained then.”
“Will you please do it again?” he murmured against the hollow behind my ear.
“Nope.”
“But I miss your body.” His hand slid along my side.
“Then you will enjoy it all the more on our wedding night.” I picked his hand up as it started sliding under my shirt.
“Are you trying to manipulate me? Because it might be working.” He kissed and nibbled my ear, driving me nearly over the edge.
I sighed. “Not much longer, right? September First?”
“Five weeks, four days, eighteen hours.”
Feels like forever. I moaned internally. But I smiled anyway and said, “Not long.”
We’d decided the date that day when we mailed the first query letters for getting my book published. Mom was satisfied, and it was far enough away that we could have a legal wedding and exchange Amadis vows at the same time. The Daemoni had been quiet, according to Stefan, who dropped in every now and then for coffee or dinner, so I had to trust Tristan would be okay in the meantime.
Less than a week later, though, Hell blew in.
Tropical Storm Edmund brewed in the Gulf of Mexico, projected to make landfall somewhere in our area as a category one or two hurricane. Longtime locals told us it wasn’t much to worry about—“Board up and hunker down. You’ll be fine.” Mom and Tristan seemed overly tense, though, considering they’d faced much worse than a relatively small hurricane. The first heavy bands of wind and rain came in as we finished boarding the cottage, having spent most of the day preparing the store.
“Something’s going on besides this storm,” Tristan yelled over the wind at Mom.
“I feel it, too,” Mom shouted back. “We’re almost done here. Get Alexis to your house. We’ll be there in a minute.”
Tristan and I ran for the car, leaving Mom and Owen to finish hanging plywood on the last window. Rain blew in sheets, looking like it marched across the road. We arrived at Tristan’s house within five minutes, but in that short amount of time, the storm’s intensity had already increased. The wind whipped at the trees, bending the palms at forty-five-degree angles, but the worst of the storm was still hours away. We pulled into the garage, and as I stepped out of the car, I thought I saw something rather large blow under the closing garage door. Tristan saw it, too.
“Aw, shit. Alexis, back in the car NOW!” Tristan roared.
But I couldn’t move.
Evil! Daemoni! Evil!
Someone grabbed me from behind and held me in a chokehold with one arm against my neck and a powerful hand clawed around my head. I didn’t know if I gagged from the pressure against my throat or from the stench of rotten meat, vomit, and feces. Flames exploded in Tristan’s eyes. He swam in my vision, but I thought I saw him take a step toward me.
“Don’t! Just a little twist of my wrist, and she’s dead,” said a sickening, scratchy, barely human voice that sounded far away though it was right in my ear. My pulse thundered in my head, nearly drowning everything else out. Whoever held me stiffened behind me.
“And one little twist of my wrist, and you’re dead.” I had no idea how she got into the closed garage, but I recognized Mom’s voice. It sounded like I’d never heard it before. Low and vicious.
I was shoved to the ground, cracking my head on the Mercedes’ bumper on my way down. In an instant I was in Tristan’s arms. Each breath tore through my burning throat. I buried my face in his chest, trying to flush the reek out with his scent. There was a stomach-turning cackle, and I turned to stare with fascinated horror.
The sordid creature barely resembled a human. Its eyes glowed red fire in its round, lumpy head, and twisted, pointed teeth filled its misshapen mouth. I thought it might have been grinning, but if that was a smile, it was the kind that gives you nightmares. Black blood trickled down its neck where Mom held a blade, the point pierced into its skin.
“What do we do with it?” Mom asked, ignoring the creature’s cackle, except for a slight dig with the knife.
“Take it upstairs, and we’ll see what it thinks it’s trying to do. I’ll be right behind you.” Tristan carried me up the stairs as we followed Mom, who held the knife at the creature’s throat. My head throbbed with each step, and I could feel a lump forming on my forehead.
A strange popping sound came from the living room, and Mom froze at the top of the stairs. The creature skipped away from her, cackling again. Tristan stopped right behind her and stiffened. The creature was not alone.
“What an excellent gift you’ve delivered, Seth—two generations of Amadis royalty and your heart all at once.” This voice was smooth and clear, possibly appealing if I hadn’t felt the evil rolling off the man who stood in the middle of the dark living room. The creature crouched at his side. “I couldn’t have imagined it being this good.”
“Your imagination has run away from you if you think you can get away with this, Edmund,” Tristan said calmly. He set me on my feet on the landing, and both he and Mom took protective stances in front of me as the man took a step closer to us. Terror gripped my heart as I realized how weak and vulnerable I was, unable to do anything but watch. Moving only my eyes, I glanced down the stairs, wondering if any others lurked in the shadows.
“I admit it’s risky, but the rewards will be worth it,” the man replied.
Hurricane shutters blocked out almost all light from the windows, but my eyes adjusted to the darkness. I still couldn’t see the man’s face, but I could see the outline of his hulking figure. He stood nearly as tall as Tristan and much bulkier. I had to remind myself of Tristan’s power because, I thought, if it came down to brute strength, I didn’t see how he could win. My heart raced as I realized the inevitability of the situation—Mom and Tristan would have to fight for our lives.
“You’re an imbecile if you think you’ll be rewarded for shedding their blood,” Tristan said. “The Daemoni would not welcome the war that would ensue.”
“Yes, I said it was risky. But after all is said and done, I would be personally responsible for ending the Amadis for good. That will be rewarded.”
My muscles tensed at the menace in the man’s smug voice.
“If you live through it,” Tristan said pointedly.
“Which you will not,” Mom added. “God himself would not allow it.”
The man shrank back at Mom’s words and didn’t reply. We all stood in silence, and I knew they each calculated how to proceed. The wind picked up intensity outside, shaking the shutters. The storm seemed to be coming faster than expected. It would be foolish to try to escape outside into it. The trapped feeling caused the panic to rise even higher, tightening my chest.
Edmund’s eyes darted back and forth between Tristan and Mom as he moved a few steps to our right, and his creature scurried next to him. Tristan moved, too, while Mom remained still. Edmund and his creature moved back to our left. This time both Mom and Tristan moved with him. They angled themselves to take him from both sides without leaving a wide enough gap for him to get to me.
“So why don’t you just make this easy for all of us, Seth?” Edmund finally spoke as they continued their macabre dance. “You come with me, and I’ll leave them alone. Lucas’s promise to you still holds.”
“And we all know the value of a Demon’s promise,” Tristan retorted.
Edmund ignored the accusation, but nodded at me. “You can bring her along, if you’d like.”
A deep, guttural growl rumbled in Tristan’s chest. He and Mom both took a step forward, their only reply.
“Then you’d rather fight it out.” Edmund made a tsking sound, and the creature’s shape transformed. It fell on all fours, became longer and taller in the darkness. It paced like a guard dog in front of Edmund, its eyes glowing red fire, a low growl in its throat. I shrank back while Tristan and Mom positioned themselves to fight. “Or maybe I just take her and let you chase me.”
Edmund leaped into the air, seeming to fly over Tristan and Mom. He landed right next to me as they spun around. Tristan swore profusely. The dog-thing stayed behind them. It crouched to attack while continuing its growl, and even in the darkness I could see its lips pulled back, sharp fangs glinting in the little bit of natural light seeping in at the edges of the windows. Edmund grabbed the back of my neck tightly and pulled me to him. My mind and body numbed in terror.
“NO!” Tristan growled roughly.
He lunged at the bulky man, knocking Edmund hard against the wall, pulling me with him. My hip smacked painfully against the baluster at the top of the stairs. At the same time, the dog-thing jumped at Mom, and she spun at it. Her arms whacked it in the side like a bat hitting an oversized, misshapen ball. It sailed across the room, landing with an inhuman cry. It was back on its feet in a second and charged at Mom. She crouched, ready for it. They simultaneously leaped toward each other. While still in midair, Mom grabbed its head and twisted it with a snap. The thing fell to the floor with a thud.
Mom landed lithely on the balls of her feet and whirled around to Tristan, the hulk, and me. Tristan and Edmund glowered at each other in a standoff. Tristan held his hand up, palm facing Edmund, but nearly two feet from him. He held the hulk flat against the wall with his paralyzing power. Edmund’s hand still clutched my neck.
“LET. HER. GO!” Tristan roared. His eyes blazed with bright flames.
“You are such a traitor.” Edmund smirked, his own eyes glowing blood red.
He slowly raised his free hand an inch from the wall, fighting Tristan’s power with evident difficulty. Mom stepped forward. Edmund was just able to twitch his finger. She flew into the loveseat, held there by an unseen force. Anger blazed in her eyes as she struggled against the power holding her, her shoulders and neck straining.
Seeing her like that pissed me off.
My heart pounded in terror, but the anger rose above it. Enough to give me the force I needed. It all happened so quickly, but it felt like slow motion as my mind registered every move, every detail. I wrapped my hands around the baluster and yanked it from its anchor. I lifted it as high as I could and slammed it down on the arm holding me. It wasn’t much compared to the hulk’s strength, but enough to distract him. He turned to look at me, his eyes wide. His mouth formed a silent O. He apparently never expected me to fight back. I sunk into fighting stance learned from my Aikido lessons, but Tristan seized the opportunity and pounced. I freed myself from the hand before it tried to close back on me and stumbled sideways, catching myself on the opposite rail to avoid falling down the stairs.
Tristan came down on the Daemoni, jabbing his elbow into Edmund’s upper back. His knee landed in the back of the hulk’s thigh, and the femur snapped loudly. Edmund fell into a heap on the floor, howling with both pain and rage. Tristan grabbed his dark hair, and I turned away as he slammed Edmund’s head against the concrete floor. The crack made my stomach lurch and echoed in my ears. I looked back as Tristan dragged him over to the creature’s body.
He leaned over and snarled, “Don’t fuck with me unless you can finish it.”
Pop! Pop! The man and the creature disappeared.
I thought the world stopped. The pounding in my chest abruptly halted. My breath caught in my throat. I collapsed to the floor, unable to restart my heart or make my lungs work. Mom caught me before I rolled down the stairs. She sat on the top step and pulled me into her lap, her power flowing through me. My lungs filled with air again. My heart started with a jolt, pounding against my ribs. She held me for a long time, or maybe for only seconds, rocking back and forth.
I’d nearly stopped trembling when Tristan lifted me into his arms. My tense muscles finally loosened, and I fell against him. He carried me over to the couch and sat down with me in his lap. I curled against him and closed my eyes. The recent events started to replay like a horror movie against my eyelids. I couldn’t keep them closed so I stared wide-eyed at nothing in the semidarkness. The sound of footsteps rushing up the stairs yanked me out of my near-catatonic state.
My heart raced again with renewed fear. My body automatically prepared for fight or flight. Stefan and Owen flew into the living room, dripping wet. I slumped back against Tristan as they surveyed the scene.
“Oh, thank God,” Stefan said breathlessly. “We thought . . .”
“Daemoni were outside,” Owen said. “They started to fight but fled instead. We thought maybe they got to you.”
There were more. My stomach clenched.
“I wondered what happened to you,” Mom said casually. She sat in the loveseat, her legs folded under her, looking, somehow, relaxed. As though what happened was simply an everyday pain-in-the-butt, like having to deal with an annoying door-to-door salesperson.
Owen eyed the broken baluster on the floor.
“What happened to your stairs, Tristan? Is this what happens when there’s no one to spar?” He chuckled.
“Alexis did it,” Tristan answered with a that’s-my-girl grin. How can they be so blasé? Owen’s eyes grew wide.
They traded stories, talking as if they’d won an exciting football game. Owen knew something was wrong when Mom disappeared from our cottage, so he hailed Stefan. They scoped the outside before coming in and found two Daemoni watching Tristan’s house. They fought briefly before the Daemoni fled. Stefan and Owen ensured they stayed away before coming inside.
I stopped wondering how people . . . or whatever they were . . . could appear and disappear in Tristan’s house and wondered instead what the point was of it being our safe place.
“They will come back,” Stefan said, now solemn. I stiffened. “Owen, go out and shield the house.”
Owen disappeared.
“They won’t be back today,” Tristan said, giving me a squeeze.
“You probably should’ve killed them,” Mom said, her voice grim, with a tint of sadness. “There’s no hope for them anyway.”
“There’s no way to burn the bodies with that storm raging out there,” Tristan said. “If we did it inside, the fumes would’ve killed us. Besides . . . I wanted to send them a message.”
“They’ll take it as a challenge,” Mom said.
“The Daemoni won’t officially. These were rogues. Many rogues will take it as a warning. But, you’re right. Some will take it as a challenge.”
“So they will be back,” Stefan repeated.
Tristan’s jaw clenched, and he nodded.
The bottom of my stomach fell out, and a feeling of despair washed over me. The false sense of safety and security for the past couple months blew away with the raging wind. We were doomed.
“They’ll never leave us alone, will they?” I whispered. “We’ll never have any peace.”
Tristan didn’t answer except by wrapping his arms around me and holding me closer.
“Solomon made a good point that night at Sophia’s house,” Stefan said. “When you two are married by the Amadis, Tristan, you become a member of the royal family. That means we all become loyal to you, not just Alexis. Right now, our first priority is Alexis’s safety. If we had to make a choice, we would have to leave you to protect her.”
“That’s how it should be,” Tristan said.
“Yes, but when you are married, we are bound to both of you. We do not have to make a choice. Increased protection is automatic for you both.”
“We’ve already discussed this,” Tristan said flatly.
“You have to see the benefits, Tristan,” Stefan pressed. “Once you become a member of the Amadis royal family, the Daemoni may decide to leave you alone. Coming after you would be hardly any different than going after Rina, Sophia, or Alexis. It is not allowed.”
“That doesn’t seem to stop them,” Tristan pointed out.
“I think they came for you, Tristan,” Mom said. “He definitely didn’t expect me.”
“How come they don’t just . . . know?” I interrupted. “I mean, you and Rina know things, Mom. If they’re really Hell’s Demons, wouldn’t they have some way to know things, like you coming here—read minds, predict the future?”
“Some Demons have the ability to plant thoughts in humans’ heads, deceiving them that they are their own thoughts. Others can completely possess a human. But none of them can read anyone’s minds—not humans’ and definitely not ours,” Mom explained.
“They have seers who try to predict the future, but their magic is unreliable, and their abilities are limited,” Stefan said.
This slightly comforted me. Then I had an idea.
“Tristan, we need to get married immediately,” I declared.
He looked down at me. “We’ve set our date. It’s not that far away.”
“And we keep that date, because they’ll hear about it, and you know they’ll plan to attack before then. They’ll try to stop us.”
“Yes, they will,” he agreed grimly.
“So we’re basically flashing a neon sign to come and get us.”
He nodded.
“But what if we get married under the Amadis now, in secret? They won’t know until it’s too late. Then anything they do is an act of war, right?”
I watched as he clenched and unclenched his jaw while he thought about it.
“She is right, Tristan,” Stefan said. “It is a good plan.”
Tristan looked at me, his eyes hard. “We’re not getting married out of fear.”
I groaned in frustration and left his side, pacing the room angrily. Why is he being so damn obstinate? We knew they’d do everything they could to stop our marriage. The Amadis and Tristan, apparently, had full confidence in their ability to stave them off. But I personally had a problem knowing we could be attacked any time. That tonight’s real-life nightmare would repeat. And what if it’s worse next time? What if they succeed?
I dropped to my knees at Tristan’s feet. “Tristan, please. You know it’s the best solution. Do it out of love. Love for me. I need it . . . I need the hope that we may be able to live without a constant threat hanging over our heads. I need that sense of peace that they won’t be able to take you from me. Please. Do it for me, because you love me.”
I gazed into his dark eyes, pleading with my own while holding his hand against my lips.
“Please? For me?”
He studied my face as he brushed my hair back from my forehead. He eyed the small, shrinking lump. His eyes flickered with what looked like sorrow or remorse.
“Okay,” he said quietly. “For you.”
I threw myself back into his lap and kissed him. “Thank you.”
He sighed. “You are my weakness.”
I leaned my head against his shoulder just as something banged on the dining room door. I thought it was the wind at first—apparently everyone did because we all stared at it but no one moved. When it really started clanging in its frame, though, Stefan stood up. He stiffened.
“Somebody’s out there!”
Tristan jumped up, dropping me to the floor. The bruise that should have been healing on my hip flared with renewed pain. He and Mom were both across the room before I could even think ow, their bodies tense. Not again! Not already!
“It’s Owen. Open the door,” Mom ordered.
Tristan pushed a button to raise the automatic hurricane shutter. A dark gray light poured through the glass, Owen silhouetted against it. Rain flew sideways at him as he pressed himself against the wind. Stefan opened the door just enough for Owen to slip in, and he had to push with force to close it again. The shutter lowered as I ran to the bathroom.
“The house is shielded. No one can get in or out,” Owen said as I rushed back with towels for him. “Of course, that meant I couldn’t get back in.”
“Can someone please explain what that means?” I asked as I handed the towels to Owen. “How you just appear and disappear . . . get in and out when this house is already supposed to be locked down?”
“It’s just part of who we are. You’ll do it, too,” Mom said lightly. I eyed her, not letting her blow it off. I didn’t accept half-truths anymore. She shrugged. “It’s natural. We call it flashing.”
“Owen has placed a shield over the house now, preventing any flashing,” Stefan added. “We did not have it in place earlier in case any of us needed to flash inside . . . which, of course, we did.”
“Yeah, okay,” I said stupidly, like I understood. Is this for real? I only knew it was because I’d seen it with my own eyes. “So . . . no one can get in now?”
“Not until we lift the shield,” Owen confirmed.
A heavy weight lifted off me. We were safe . . . for now anyway.
While the storm churned outside, Mom and I huddled in the living room, planning my weddings. They would obviously be small affairs. It wasn’t like I had anyone to invite anyway, but the first one—the one that truly mattered to me—had to be entirely secretive and done quickly. The longer we waited, the more chances the Daemoni had to attack, but Solomon and Rina needed a couple of days to arrive. They’d be marrying us.
After Stefan and Tristan lit candles and double-checked security because of the power outage, we debated where to hold the wedding. Stefan said it would be too suspicious if we all gathered at one of our houses, and I really wanted it on the beach but didn’t think it’d be possible. After concentrating on the options, Tristan came up with the idea of a secluded area on Gasparilla Island. He said everyone (but me, of course) could flash there without being noticed, it provided the necessary privacy for the ceremony, and it would be easy for Owen to shield.
I had no idea what that last part really meant, but I trusted Tristan. And, I supposed, I was learning to trust Owen. I had to. He was my personal protector. It was still odd to think of him like that. When he was around, it was because he was doing his job, which meant he would take a bullet for me. Or whatever the Daemoni use. I hated the idea of anyone risking their lives for mine. I now felt even more impatient for the Ang’dora, because it would make me strong and powerful, like them. Funny how a year ago I never wanted it to happen because I wanted to be normal. Now, normal meant vulnerable, and I was too normal for everyone around me—everyone I cared about.
Mom and Stefan started talking about the legal wedding—the fake one, from my point of view. Their plans became elaborate. If I didn’t know it was to throw the Daemoni off, I would have protested every idea. I didn’t care about that wedding; it was just a formality.
My eyes grew heavy as we sat in the warm darkness, the voices becoming distant. I fought their desire to close, afraid of what I might see behind my eyelids, but sleep eventually won. I saw myself standing on the beach on a small island in a blood-red satin and chiffon dress, the wind whipping at it, shredding it into pieces. Four or five dog-thing creatures circled around me, baring their fangs and growling gutturally, while flying men swooped overhead, cackling and cawing. Two men the size of the real Hulk came out of the trees, grinning nefariously. Tristan suddenly stood at my side, but as he moved forward to fight, the flying men swooped down and grabbed him, taking him away.
I choked on a scream as I sat bolt upright and gasped for air. I looked around wildly. Tristan’s living room. Everyone had left the room except for Tristan, who still sat on the couch with me. I lay back down with my head in his lap, and he smoothed my damp hair. I realized my clothes were nearly soaked with sweat.
“It’s so hot,” I complained quietly.
“No A/C. Turning on the generator will only confirm to the Daemoni that we’re still here. It may not matter, but we’re taking no chances.”
I tried to spread out better on the leather couch, looking for cool spots against my skin.
“Why don’t we let someone else have the couch?” Tristan pushed me up by the shoulders. He picked up a candle, and I followed him upstairs. He stopped at his closet for something and handed me one of his T-shirts after ripping the sleeves off. I let my shorts drop to the floor as I headed into the bathroom. When I came out, Tristan was spread out on the bed, wearing only boxers. I wanted to run my hands across his bare chest . . . and kiss it . . . and . . .  Damn, it’s been so long . . . . Voices floated over the loft’s balcony, reminding me we had very little privacy. It was just too dang hot to do anything anyway. I sighed.  Not much longer. I lay on the cool sheets on the far side of the bed so only our hands touched. I let the steady sound of the rain against the shutters and Tristan’s calming touch lull me to a dreamless sleep.
Chapter 24
CHAPTER 24
Edmund the storm brought very little damage, barely reaching hurricane force. The long-term damage from Edmund the Daemoni, however, was yet to be determined. Stefan and his troops were unable to gather much information over the next two days. We didn’t know if the Daemoni even knew about either wedding, let alone if they planned anything. We constantly talked about the legal wedding every chance we had, unnecessarily loud in case they spied. When the third day arrived, I woke up excited to finally be allowed to focus on my real wedding.
I padded into the kitchen that morning, poured a cup of coffee, and stared at the calendar while I sipped. July Thirtieth. The day that would change my life forever.
“I have good news and bad news,” Mom said, rushing into the kitchen. Like Tristan, she had completely reversed her opinion about our marriage after Edmund’s visit. She wasn’t only supportive, but actually thrilled. Her voice sounded too happy for “bad news” to mean anything devastating—like an attack.
“No bad news today,” I said.
“Sorry,” she said, “but Solomon couldn’t make it. The timing was bad for him, but he sends his regrets and his love.”
“We can still go on, right?” I asked. I thought he was part of the ceremony. He seemed to hold an important position on the council.
“Oh, of course. We only must have Rina, and Stefan can represent the council.”
I exhaled the breath I’d been holding. Since I didn’t know Solomon well, I wasn’t too disappointed.
“So, what’s the good news?”
“The good news is . . .,” she grabbed my hand and pulled me down the hall to her bedroom, “. . . the Amadis dress arrived.”
“Really? I want to see!”
We stopped in front of her bed. A white garment bag, seeming to have an otherworldly shine to it, lay like a pearl on Mom’s chocolate-brown duvet. It looked as if it came from somewhere magical. It scared me. Irrational, but nonetheless true.
“Go ahead, open it.” She bounced on her toes with excitement.
I hesitated with trepidation. I had no idea what a traditional Amadis dress was. Mom wouldn’t even describe it for me, wanting it to be a surprise. I carefully unzipped the bag and pulled the dress out by the hanger. Whoa! I was definitely surprised.
“Seriously, Mom? I’m supposed to wear this in front of other people?”
“You’ll look exquisite! Come on, try it on.”
I raised an eyebrow at her. She’s got to be kidding. She started taking it off the hanger, fluttering her hands at me to undress. I reluctantly obeyed and let her dress me. I certainly needed help with the top of the two-piece dress—a tight, white leather bodice, cut low, with three leather straps on each side, front and back, leading up to a diamond-studded collar at the neck. The scalloped bottom barely reached the top of the white silk, A-line skirt, also scalloped at the bottom, ending a couple inches above my knees. It looked like something out of a gladiator movie. Mom gathered my hair and held it up on my head as she walked me to the full-length mirror. My mouth fell open.
“Mom . . . you’re kidding, right? This is traditional?”
“Traditional for us. Rina prefers silk and satin gowns, but a couple of centuries ago, this is similar to what the matriarch would wear. You look beautiful.”
I shook my head. I just couldn’t see myself wearing it in public.
“Tristan will love it,” she sang.
“Tristan likes new, modern, contemporary. Nothing that reminds him of who he was.”
“Don’t worry, this won’t. It’s not like women ran around in these dresses in the seventeen-hundreds. Trust me, he’ll love it. Especially on you.”
It’s not like I had any choice. We’d shopped for gowns for the fake wedding, but I’d been planning on this dress all along for the real one, so I hadn’t yet bought anything. Tristan will love it. I sighed and nodded in resignation.
“It’s like leather lingerie,” I complained as Mom showed me the trick to getting out of it by myself.
She chuckled. “No, the lingerie is in a wrapped box for tonight.”
“You didn’t!”
“Who else would?” She smiled mischievously and then went back to being a mother. “There’s also a box of condoms. No babies until you graduate.”
“Yes, I know. We’ve discussed this a hundred times.” My stomach tightened. I wasn’t so concerned about babies yet . . . it was the actual activity that created babies I was worried about. “Mom . . . I’m kind of scared. I don’t know what to do.”
“Oh, I’m sure Tristan will do it,” she said casually as she hung the dress back on the hanger. I stared at her in confusion. “Surely he knows how to put a condom on.”
That visual made my insides squirm with panic.
“I mean the whole thing! All of it!”
“Oh.” She looked at me with surprise, and then her expression dissolved into understanding. “Honey, it will all come naturally.”
“How do I know what natural is, though? How do I know what’s right? What if I do it all wrong?”
She smiled. “The thing about men, Alexis, is they generally don’t find any of it wrong. In fact, usually the more wrong it is, the more they like it.”
“Mo-om!”
She shrugged. “I’m serious. There is very little you can do that would scare him away. Just don’t belch, fart, or call out anyone else’s name, and you’ll be fine.”
“Sophia!” I couldn’t help the laugh that escaped, though. Just one. Before the panic set right back in. “I want to do it right. I want to make him happy.”
“Oh, you will. Trust me—you’ll make him extremely happy. When I say it’ll come naturally, I mean it. This is something Amadis daughters instinctively do very well.” She smiled coyly and winked at me. I didn’t feel any better.
Butterflies grew and multiplied in my stomach as the day went on. Time seemed to drag on forever and, at the same time, evening raced toward us, as if someone played with the hands on the world’s master clock. Mom and I spent the afternoon driving all over two counties, stopping at bridal stores and flower shops, trying to bore anyone who might be following. Finally, a little after six o’clock, Mom made sure no one pursued us, and we headed out to Gasparilla. She followed Tristan’s directions down a road covered in sand from lack of use.
I practically danced a seated jig in the car from the nerves by then. Stefan said the Daemoni had learned about the September First wedding, but he had no indication they knew about this one. If we could get through this next hour or so, we’d be on our way to peace. Of course, then I would have more personal issues to worry about.
“Looks like this is it.” Mom pulled into a space of patchy grass and sand between palmetto bushes. “We’ll have to walk the rest of the way.”
I changed in the backseat of Mom’s car. She checked me over and fixed my hair she’d piled onto my head, using her finger to curl the stray locks around my face. She straightened the dress, adjusting my boobs, which nearly flowed right over the top of the bodice. We hadn’t walked five steps on the uneven terrain when I decided the heels were a bad idea.
“Love the shoes, Mom, but they have to go.” I stopped to pull them off, and she frowned, but couldn’t argue. Bare feet on the rough ground didn’t work well either. I had no idea how far we had to walk, and I grew more frustrated with each slow, careful step. I stopped, exasperated. “This isn’t working either. How am I supposed to get to my wedding?”
“Can I help?” Stefan had come to meet us. He gently picked me up in his arms and carried me. He had a smooth stride, not affected at all by my extra weight. His pure vanilla scent brought back memories of when he carried me when I was little. “You look quite lovely. I remember your great-grandmother in a similar dress.”
Wow. I never knew how ancient he was.
“Thank you. But I feel like a helpless child playing dress-up in mommy’s naughty clothes.” The dress wasn’t really that bad; it just wasn’t me. It wasn’t shorts and flip-flops, in other words.
He laughed, the sound of a baritone saxophone skipping through various notes.
“Are we still safe?” I asked.
“Yes, I am positive.”
“I feel quite good about it, too,” Mom said.
“All you need to focus on is becoming Mrs. Tristan Knight,” Stefan said.
My heart pitter-pattered with delight to hear him say it. The statement also re-energized the butterflies, and I was shaking by the time we reached the small, crescent beach—a little cove where the island indented enough to be nearly surrounded by wild brush and trees. We had full view of the water and the lowering sun. Rina, Owen, and Tristan stood near the water, waiting for us.
“Your bride, sir,” Stefan said to Tristan as he set me on the soft sand.
“Thank you, Sheffie,” I whispered. Stefan smiled and pecked me on the cheek.
Tristan took my breath away as he strode over to us. Dressed simply in white slacks and a white silky T-shirt just tight enough to emphasize his physique, and the gold sparkles in his eyes shining, he was even more beautiful than I thought possible. He gave me a once-over and raised an eyebrow with appreciation, then took my hand and kissed it. I stopped trembling. He smiled and winked. I stared at him, completely loving him and totally forgetting why we were there.
“Are you sure you still want to be my wife?” he murmured.
“Uh . . . yeah,” I stammered, trying to clear my head. When the fog lifted, I smiled and said confidently, “Of course.”
“Good,” he whispered, “because I’d never let anyone else have the pleasure of taking my place.”
He led me over to Rina. She nodded at Mom, Stefan, and Owen, who all stood in silence behind us. Tristan gently squeezed my hand as Rina began.
“‘And now these three remain: faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love.’ Tristan and Alexis, is this the love you both share?”
“Yes,” we answered together.
“Do you promise to uphold this love throughout eternity?”
“Yes.”
“Tristan, you may state your vows,” Rina commanded.
He turned toward me, smiled warmly, and looked into my eyes. I was sure he purposely set his voice to its loveliest tone.
“Alexis, my love, with a happiness I had never known possible before I met you, I receive you into my life that together we may be one. I promise you my unequivocal love, my unending devotion, my tenderest care. I will love you faithfully through the best and the worst, through the difficult and the easy. What may come, I will always be there. Entrust me not to leave you or to return from following after you. For where you go, I will go, and where you stay, I will stay. Your people will be my people, and your god will be my god. I will take care of you, honor and protect you, for as long as I live, into eternity. I lay down my life for you, Alexis, my friend and my love. Today I give to you my soul.”
Rina smiled and turned to me. “Alexis?”
I took a deep breath to steady my voice, and then recited my vows, blinking back tears.
“My sweet Tristan, with deepest love I did not know could exist, I come into my new life with you. I thank you for who you are to me—my best friend, my one love, my true soul mate. I was created for you and you for me. I will ever strengthen, help, comfort, and encourage you. I will trust you and honor you. I will love you today, tomorrow, and forever. Throughout life, as long as it lasts, into eternity, I pledge to you my life as a loving and faithful wife, no matter what lies ahead of us. My love will never be taken from you. Today I give you my soul to keep.”
Tristan flashed the most sublime smile that reached into the depths of my heart. We turned back to Rina.
“Tristan and Alexis, with these vows you pledge your souls to each other for eternity. Do you promise to fight for your love and for each other for as long as you both shall live?”
“I do,” we said together.
“Tristan, to come into this union, you must also give your life and soul to the Angels and to the Amadis. Do you promise to protect us, to love us, to serve us, to lay down your life for us, at all costs, for as long as you live, into eternity?”
The air suddenly felt still and heavy as we all tensed. If the Daemoni knew what was about to happen, this would be their last opportunity to stop it. Once Tristan took this vow, he became Amadis royalty, severing all ties to his creators.
Please, Tristan, just say it!
“I do.”
Just then, a powerful gust of wind blew through the cove. At the same time, a warm sunray beamed directly on our little group. The sun itself seemed to shine a little more brightly as it hovered over the horizon. Directly overhead, though, a dark cloud formed out of nowhere, lightning shooting across it and thunder cracking, the wind whipping around us. It made me think that something very evil was very angry.
Rina glanced up at the threatening cloud, and a small, mysterious smile appeared on her face. She didn’t say anything, aloud or otherwise, but her eyes looked triumphant.
She took a step closer to Tristan and me, placed a hand over each of our hearts, and closed her eyes. A warm tingling swept over my skin, followed by an unusual energy flow from her into my heart and throughout my body. A moment later, it flowed down my arm, through my hand and into Tristan’s, while at the same time, a different kind of energy streamed from his hand into mine. The two energies combined in my chest then spread throughout my body.
Rina spoke mightily, her voice clear and strong, almost otherworldly. If there was any doubt before that she ruled something extremely powerful, it was blown away then.
“I am Katerina Camilla Ames, matriarch of the Amadis, protectors of souls and servants to the Angels. Under my power, I join these two souls together as one, forever bound to each other with an eternal love and loyalty that cannot be severed by anyone or anything.”
My skin under her hand burned and prickled, and the warmth radiated, encircling my heart.
Rina then took each of our free hands and joined them together, then wrapped both of hers around ours. She bowed her head, and we all followed suit.
“God of the Universe, Great Spirit and Creator, we thank you for this union and the blessings you will provide as its result. We each lay down our lives for you in our continued servitude. Show us your way, and we shall follow. Amen.”
Rina smiled and gave us a slight nod. Tristan gently tilted my head up with his fingers under my chin, bent over, and delivered the most amazing, most loving kiss he had ever given me.
“I do not know what is above us, exactly, but it would be in our best interests to vacate immediately,” Stefan interrupted, eyeing the unusual storm cloud above us. It wasn’t low enough to threaten rain, but the lightning, thunder, and wind continued, seeming to grow in anger.
We received quick hugs of congratulations, and Owen took a quick picture of Tristan and me with his new, high-tech cell phone, the only camera available. Then he, Rina, and Stefan disappeared. Tristan scooped me up and ran to Mom’s car, Mom not far behind. He sat in the backseat with me as Mom chauffeured us to a small parking lot where Tristan’s Ferrari waited.
“Tristan, do you have her bag?” Mom asked.
“In the car. Let’s go, ma lykita.” He opened the door and helped me out.
The air here was perfectly calm. Still, as Mom drove off, I had an eerie feeling about the next time I’d see her. Just nerves. We’ll be okay now. Well, “we” as in all of us. Now, me, for tonight anyway . . . I wasn’t so sure.
Chapter 25
CHAPTER 25
“Where are we going?” I asked Tristan as he held the car door for me. “I thought we couldn’t have a honeymoon yet.”
“Do you really think I’d let tonight be like any other night?” He kissed me before shutting the door.
Like that could happen. We could have gone home and watched movies, but in the end, it would definitely not be like any other night. Not in my life anyway.
“So, where are we going?” I asked again when he was in the car.
“Somewhere special for my special wife on this very special night.” He kissed my hand and winked. “Topless?”
I stared at him blankly. I wondered if he’d still have that same effect on me in eighty years. Or a hundred-and-eighty years. I hoped so.
“Guess not,” he muttered.
“Oh, yes, definitely,” I finally answered. He pushed a button, and the car’s roof began to lower.
We drove south and stopped at an upscale restaurant in Naples, overlooking the water. It wasn’t crowded, due to it being off-season, but the people there gawked unabashedly at us. I thought it was the car at first, but their stares, from both men and women, continued as we followed the maître d’ to our table by the windows. The table could seat four, so Tristan sat to my right, rather than across from me.
“Are you okay?” he asked when we were alone.
“I really didn’t want to be seen in this by other people,” I whispered, tugging at the top of the bodice. He took my hand to stop me.
“Don’t let their admiration bother you. I’m quite enjoying it.” He kissed my fingers. “I couldn’t wait for people to see you in that dress. Because you are with me. Forever.” He leaned closer, his lips tickling my ear. “At least let me enjoy it now, because I will have you out of that dress soon enough.”
The butterflies awoke in my stomach and fluttered at full force throughout dinner, and I could hardly eat. They grew and multiplied again in the bathroom when I overheard a couple of young women while I was still in the stall.
“He’s fucking gorgeous. And did you see the car they got out of? I think he’s the singer in that one band,” one said.
“I thought he was that actor . . . the one in that new spy movie, I can’t think of his name,” said the other. I knew whom she talked about. There was a slight resemblance, but Tristan was much more attractive.
“Oh, maybe you’re right. I don’t know who that girl is. She’s pretty, but, dude, he could have anyone. So not fair. But love that dress!”
I blushed, though no one even knew I was in there.
“Lucky girl, huh? Did you see how his muscles rippled under his shirt?” She sighed.
Ha! If she only knew the real power.
“I think I’d come at first touch.”
They giggled like schoolgirls. I opened the stall door then and strode out to the sinks, where they both stood, staring at me with their mouths hanging open and their faces beet red.
“Only a certain kind of woman can handle a man like that,” I said.
No, that didn’t really happen. But I imagined it and wished I’d had the chutzpah to actually do it. Instead, the butterflies transformed into fish flopping sickeningly in my stomach. I stood in the stall until they left, taking deep, calming breaths, grateful that freesia-infused freshener permeated the air.
The door opened again, and I felt extreme benevolence flow into the bathroom.
“Alexis?” an unfamiliar female voice asked. An Amadis protector, sounding alarmed.
“I’m fine,” I said from the stall. The door hissed closed.
I washed my hands while giving my reflection a silent pep talk. It didn’t work.
“You’ve been awfully quiet, and you hardly ate a thing,” Tristan said once we were in the car and headed for the highway.
“I know. I’m sorry. I ruined your special surprise.”
He laughed. “That was not my surprise. I thought maybe we should eat while we had the chance. We have a long drive ahead of us.”
“Where are we going?” I asked once again.
“You’ll see.” He put his hand on my thigh where the skirt had ridden up and squeezed gently. I fought back a shudder. He let his hand rest there, absentmindedly rubbing his fingers back and forth as he drove. The electric currents shot through me like his touch was new again. The shudder won. He looked at me with concern. “You’re not okay.”
I thought about what he would want to hear, what I should say to him as his new wife. So I gave him the partial truth. “Every time you touch me, it’s like it’s the first time.”
He grinned my favorite, most stunning smile. That was a good one. He moved his hand to caress the inside of my wrist and forearm. “You mean like this?”
Goose bumps rose. He moved his hand to my neck and stroked around my jawline, down my neck, and along my collarbone. I shivered again. His grin widened.
“You’re making me crazy,” I said giddily.
“Good. You’ve been driving me insane all evening.” His foot pressed harder on the gas pedal. I didn’t even want to know our speed, sure it was way over the limit. “I’ll get us there as fast as I can.”
We drove in silence for a while, the road fairly dark and empty across Alligator Alley, the stretch of highway connecting southern Florida’s east and west coasts. I wondered if we were going to Miami. It wasn’t long—less than half the time it should have been—before we approached the lights of the city. He drove a little slower with the added traffic, until we hit US-1 and headed south, for the Keys.
“It’s an awfully long drive for just one night,” I said. I’d nixed the idea of going to Key West after our fake wedding when I discovered the drive to be nearly six hours.
“Not when I’m driving.” He grinned in the lights of the dash. “And we can stay as long as we want. We did it, my love. And with no problems. The sooner they know that, the better. It may prevent them from attacking unnecessarily.”
“That wasn’t the plan.”
“It’s the best solution I see now. As long as they don’t know, we’re essentially sending an invitation.” A moment passed, and he changed his tone. “Listen, this isn’t what I want to discuss on our wedding night. This is a happy time for us. Let’s see how we feel, check in with the others, and we’ll play it by ear, okay? You’re done with summer classes, and the semester doesn’t start for a few weeks.”
“I’m pretty sure I’m not packed for more than a night or two.”
“No, but that’s okay. I really don’t plan on you wearing many clothes anyway.” He grinned again. And the butterflies, which had been subdued for a while, flew around excitedly.
We rode in silence again. I couldn’t pull my mind away from the night ahead and almost regretted saving my first time for my wedding night. The nerves were ruining what should have been the best night of my life.
“Your silence concerns me,” Tristan finally said.
“I’m sorry. I’m just . . .” I couldn’t say it. “. . . ready to be wherever we’re going.”
He glanced at me. “Too much hesitation. That’s not what you’re really thinking.”
I debated whether to come out with it or push through it. I’d told him I trusted him. In fact, I’d just vowed tonight to trust him. I thought in silence for a while. What I ended up blurting out was not exactly what I’d been thinking.
“When was the last time you were with a woman?”
He looked at me in shock and let off the gas. I thought at first he’d slowed down out of surprise, but then he made a turn off the highway. And he still hadn’t answered me.
“You’re not going to tell me,” I muttered. “It’s not like I ever thought I was the first. You’ve been around for . . . a long time.”
“This is another subject we shouldn’t be discussing tonight.”
“I’m just curious.”
“Why are you suddenly curious on our wedding night?” He sounded angry, and his jaw muscle twitched.
He turned the car into a private driveway ending at a large house. The moon reflected on the water behind it and bounced off the house’s metal roof. He parked. I didn’t move. All I could see in the darkness was a two-story house with the front door on the second level and stairs and a deck in front of it. I stared out the window at the lattice that wrapped around the ground level.
Tristan turned to glare at me, and I finally faced him.
“I know you don’t like talking about your past, and I’m sorry I made you angry. It’s just . . . I’m just . . . nervous,” I finally admitted.
His face softened, and he sighed heavily.
“Not for over twenty-something years, and only when it was necessary. That was my old life, before . . .  I hate that’s how it is for us, but it is.” He watched me for a reaction, and I gave it.
“So, at least it’s not the blind leading the blind,” I blurted.
He laughed, apparently caught off guard. “You are so . . . different.”
“That’s what I’ve been told.” I scowled.
He leaned over and kissed me, then murmured, “I have never made love.”
I smiled. “I’m happy to know I’m your first in that way.” The butterflies only strengthened, though, and I sighed. “But it’s not helping with the nerves. I seriously don’t know what to do.”
He gave me a strange look. “Who are you, and what have you done with my Lexi?”
“Huh?”
“How many times have you started something with me and wanted to finish it?” His eyes danced playfully as his hand caressed my face and neck.
I smiled sheepishly. “A lot.”
“So why the nerves now?”
“Because I know it’s actually going to happen, and I’ve had way too much time to think about it.”
“Ah. Maybe you need to stop thinking then.” He leaned over and kissed me again. “You know more than you think you do. You certainly know how to turn me on.”
He brushed his lips against my neck and up to my ear. My body responded immediately.
“That’s you turning me on,” I breathed.
“Good. That’s how it starts, by the way.” He kissed my lips before I could retort. “Stay here, I’ll be right back.”
He jumped out of the car and was up the stairs and at the front door so quickly, I was sure he flashed. He opened the door, pressed a code into the alarm system just inside, and flipped on a couple lights. I knew he flashed back down to me because he stood inside the doorway and then instantly he stood right next to me. I laughed as he bent over the car door and scooped me out, carrying me up the stairs and inside.
“The tradition is you carry me over our own threshold,” I said as he set me on my feet in the small foyer. The smell of fresh paint and lumber told me the house was either new or recently remodeled.
“This is. Well, yours anyway.” He took my hand and pulled me through a doorway into a fabulous kitchen open to a dining area and family room. He wrapped his arms around me from behind and nuzzled his face against my ear. “My wedding gift to you.”
He nodded at a small pile of papers on the counter with keys on top.
“What?” Then I came back to reality. “You mean while we’re here. This little trip, right?”
“Well, that, too. But I mean the house. It’s yours.”
“Tristan,” I gasped. “A house? Are you crazy?”
He grinned and kissed my temple. “Thank you for being my wife.”
I shook my head. “This isn’t right. I didn’t have time to get you anything yet, and you got a house? You can’t give this to me.”
“Will you please stop being difficult on this night of all nights? Just relax and enjoy it, okay?”
I turned around and stared at him in disbelief. He cupped his hands around my face.
“Think of it as an investment for our future. I just had to put it in your name for tax reasons . . . among others. Okay?”
I relaxed and smiled, knowing this was his area of expertise.
“Ours, then,” I said.
“If you prefer . . .” He gave me a quick kiss. “Stay here while I get our bags, and then I’ll show you my favorite room.”
It took him longer than I expected. I walked around the island kitchen with its smooth granite countertops and into the family room, admiring the perfection throughout. Everything was exactly the way I’d design and decorate it myself, if I had any talent at all. Sand-colored walls, sun-bleached wood floors and furniture, fabrics in cerulean blue, coral, aqua, and shell-pink—the feeling of the beach brought indoors. A wall of sliding glass doors led out to a screened-in balcony. The darkness swallowed anything beyond except the water still reflecting the moon.
“Sorry,” Tristan said, appearing in the kitchen. “I had to get an update.”
I looked at him expectantly.
“We’re fine. We can enjoy ourselves. So, what do you think so far?”
I walked over to him and stood on my toes to kiss him. “It’s perfect!”
He let out a sigh of relief and smiled. “Good. Come on.”
He took my hand and led me across the family room and through a door leading into a large bedroom suite. A big bed faced a small sitting area with a chaise lounge and more sliding glass doors. Everything was white except for splashes of jewel-tone colors, primarily amethyst, my favorite. It felt like a tropical island.
“I call it the Caribbean room,” he said.
“I love it!”
“I hoped you would.” He beamed, reminding me of a little kid proudly showing off his artwork.
“Oh! Tristan . . . did you design this house?”
His grin widened.
I stared at him in disbelief. “You’re amazing.”
“You are amazing, ma lykita,” he said, taking me into his arms. “And for some reason I still don’t understand, you are mine.”
I placed my hands on the sides of his face, tilting it down toward me, and gazed into his sparkling eyes. “You don’t need to understand. Just know.”
I pulled his face down to me and pressed my lips to his. The passion, pent up for the last several weeks, rose quickly in both of us. Our lips moved together longingly, kissing and tugging. Our hands caressed each other’s faces and necks. I pushed my fingers through his hair and pulled him closer, separating my lips and welcoming his tangy-sweet taste on my tongue. I slid my hands down his strong neck, over his broad shoulders, and along his hard chest.
As we kissed more fervently, his hand moved down my back, sliding between the bodice and the skirt and resting against the small of my back. His other hand caressed my neck and slid down slowly along the plane of my chest and back up. His mouth traveled over my chin and down my throat. I arched my back, lifting my chest against his lips. His mouth was warm and wet on my skin. His hand felt along the straps, up and around the collar.
“How do I get this thing off you?” he murmured desperately.
I smiled. “It’s complicated.”
I unhooked the choker and pulled my arms through the straps and then brought his hand to the hidden zipper in the back. The bodice fell to the floor. He cupped my tight and heavy breasts in his hands, and my nipples hardened as he kissed and licked, electricity surging everywhere he touched me, rippling across my skin. He rolled one tip with his thumb, while taking the other into his mouth, suckling and pulling it into a hard nub. My lower body squeezed as if there were a direct line from my breasts to my groin.
I frantically pulled his shirt off, and my skirt fell next. He lifted me up, and I pressed against him, running my lips and tongue along his smooth neck, tasting, kissing, sucking. He carried me over to the bed and gently lay me down.
“You are dangerously beautiful,” he murmured, appraising me as he slid off his slacks.
Keeping my eyes from wandering, I looked into his eyes and saw no fire—just beautiful emerald green and sparkly gold.
“You’re . . . okay,” I said quietly.
“I am truly Amadis now. The monster is buried deeply . . . maybe gone forever.” His smile faltered. “Of course, we do still need to be careful. You’re still so very fragile.”
My heart raced as he climbed onto the bed and lay next to me. He placed his hand lightly around my neck and kissed my mouth with renewed fervor. His hand glided down, over and between my bare breasts, along my stomach, around the curve of my hip and along my thigh, leaving shocks of electricity along the path. His hand encircled my calf, and he hitched my leg over his hip, then slid his hand up the back of my thigh. My body warmed and quivered with both yearning and fright.
My hands ran along his bare chest for the first time in way too long, feeling its smooth planes and curves. They trembled as they moved lower, along his perfect washboards, his muscles flexing under my touch. He hooked his thumb under the elastic of my panties and, with a slight jerk, tore them off.
We explored new places we’d never been, and we both hesitated before reaching those parts that throbbed with frantic desire. He was hard and big in my hand, exciting and scaring me at the same time as I stroked him and he moaned. His tongue flicked at my nipple as his hand separated my legs, caressing my inner thighs and then between. A finger slid into me. A small cry of surprise and pleasure escaped my throat.
“You’re warm and wet,” he breathed against my breast.
I froze and looked at him, not knowing what to say, heat rising to my face. “Um, sorry?”
He smiled as his finger stroked, making me quiver around him. “That’s a good thing.”
He took me into near oblivion with only his fingers, and then he rolled over on top of me, gently moving between my legs. He must have seen the panic in my eyes.
“You okay? You look . . . really scared.” His voice was low, kind, gentle.
“You’re just . . . um . . .” I blushed again. “. . . really freaking big.”
I had a hard time imagining all of that inside little me.
A smile played on his lips. “Sorry.”
I giggled, despite everything. “No, you’re not.”
He pressed down against me and ran his mouth across my cheek.
“No, not really,” he whispered against my ear. He shifted, and his stiffness pressed against me. “Ready?”
I stared into his eyes and nodded.
“I’ll be gentle.” He barely moved his hips, sliding slightly inside me.
OW! I bit my lip. He must have felt me tense because he didn’t move. We both remained perfectly still, but I could feel him throbbing inside me. I also felt . . . something. I didn’t think my body could heal that . . . that wasn’t supposed to heal. But the pain subsided, and I relaxed.
“Okay?” he asked, his eyes holding mine.
I nodded again. He slid in further, and I gasped, but not with pain. He knew, too, because he continued slowly, an inch at a time, until he filled me completely. Then he moved, back and forth, in and out, slow at first, then faster. And harder. And deeper. Each stroke electrified me, sending jolts of pleasure throughout my body. My back arched, and I clawed at him as I climbed quickly to my first ever orgasm. But he kept going, and I kept coming, again and again, each one building on the previous one, bigger, better, higher, until I thought I’d fly over some unseen edge and into oblivion to never return again. And then he thrust himself inside me harder and deeper than ever and there I went over that edge, losing all control. Every muscle in my body contracted. My back arched. My head went dizzy with euphoria. I quaked violently with a scream, squeezing him as he convulsed inside me while moaning my name.
He collapsed against me, and we lay still for several moments, panting, our hearts pounding against each other’s chests.
He finally rolled off and lay on his side next to me, running his fingertips randomly over my breasts and stomach. My body quivered as if I’d truly been electrocuted. We grinned at each other, and I’d never seen his eyes sparkle so brightly. I knew exactly how he felt and wondered why people bothered with drugs when making love had to be the ultimate high.
Physically spent, I eventually turned onto my side, facing him, and pressed the full length of my body against his, our legs intertwining. We fell asleep naked in each other’s arms. But not for long. I awoke to the tickle of Tristan’s fingers skating along my ribs and down my side.
“I’m sorry, but I can’t get enough of you,” he murmured.
“Don’t be sorry. I’m all yours.” I kissed him with a new hunger.
Knowing what to expect this time . . . and wanting it desperately . . . I let my inhibitions and self-consciousness fall away. My natural instincts took over, and the animal inside came out to play.
Chapter 26
CHAPTER 26
Light filled the Caribbean room when I awoke only a couple hours later. I was snuggled up to Tristan’s back, his arm thrown over my hip. I kissed his shoulders and ran my fingertips along his spine, hoping to wake him if he wasn’t already. The air caught in my throat when I saw the marks all over his back.
“Tristan! What happened to you?” I bolted upright.
He rolled onto his back, and they were all over his chest, too: long, purplish-yellow streaks like scratches but they were fading bruises. Larger bruises discolored his shoulders, ribs, and hips. He glanced down at his chest and grinned.
“You.”
“What?”
He lifted my hand and placed my palm against one of the bruises on his ribs. It was the perfect size. The bruised streaks matched the width of my fingers. The blotches on his hips were as wide as my thighs. I stared at him in horror.
“Looks like I wasn’t the only one we should’ve been worried about.” He laughed.
I threw my hands to my face to hide my shame. “I am so sorry.”
He wrapped his arms around me and pulled me close to him. I was afraid to touch him.
“They only look bad because of, well, the frequency, but they don’t hurt,” he promised. Then he lowered his voice. “Besides, I kind of liked it. Actually, I really liked it.”
I pulled myself away to get a good look at his face. He grinned. Mom was right. I rolled my eyes. And that’s when I noticed the cracked and chipped headboard and a dent in the wall above it. I eyed Tristan.
“I don’t know who did what, but I don’t think anger is the only emotion that brings out your strength.” He laughed and squeezed my thigh. I cringed—I had my own bruises.
We lay in bed until our stomachs growled and decided to take a shower before we ate. That’s when I first felt, and then saw, the mark on Tristan’s chest, right over his heart. I didn’t know how I missed it before, perhaps distracted by all the bruises. This wasn’t a bruise or a scratch. It had a design, dark red and slightly raised, what looked like a sword with wings. I traced my finger over it and looked into his eyes.
“I’ve never noticed that before,” I said.
He didn’t answer, but he traced the birthmark over my own heart. It had always been faint, just slightly different pigmentation from the skin around it. Now it was also raised and pink, giving it the same representation of a sword with wings.
“What is it?” I asked.
“Sophia never told you? It’s the mark of the Amadis family.”
I remembered the burning, tingling sensation under Rina’s hand when she held it right there during the ceremony. Her other hand had been over Tristan’s heart. My breath caught.
“Rina branded you?”
Tristan chuckled. “It’s always been there, underneath. You brought it out.”
“Huh.” I felt mine with my fingers and then went back to his. I couldn’t help but kiss it.
We made love in the shower, trying not to break the tiles—six didn’t make it. It was better than I ever imagined, and I’d dreamt about the scene many, many times. The water rained down on us . . . Tristan held me securely, my legs wrapped around his waist . . . Mmm . . . much better than any dream.
After the shower, as I rummaged through my bag for something to wear, I remembered the condoms. I placed the box on the counter.
“We should be more responsible,” I muttered.
Tristan pulled a box out of his own bag. “Yes, we should.”
I laughed. “Do you think we have enough?”
“We can always get more.”
We eyed each other. I was instantly in his arms again.
“Maybe we should let this new round of bruises heal first,” I said, placing my hands on his chest.
“Mmm . . . I guess you’re right.” He gave my butt a playful squeeze. “I need to feed you anyway, keep your energy up.”
Mom had packed me two sets of clothes, a bathing suit, and the box I presumed contained lingerie. Not knowing our plans, I decided to not get dressed yet and wrapped the soft, thick towel around me instead. I padded out to the kitchen, where Tristan poked around the refrigerator.
“There’s food in there?” I asked, surprised. I sat on a barstool at the island.
“I had some brought in. Not a lot, but we can get more if we stay.”
I watched him with awe—he wore only shorts and it wasn’t just his muscles that held my eyes. His tanned skin seemed to glow. I tore my eyes away and glanced down at the house papers in front of me. Something caught my interest. The owner’s name was not mine. Maybe I did misunderstand.
“Tristan, who’s Katie Andrews, and why does her trust own this house? I thought . . .”
He placed some green grapes and cheese on the counter and turned to the pantry. “If you did some real digging through several attorneys’ offices, you might be able to find that Katie Andrews is an alias for Alexis Ames. Hopefully, though, you wouldn’t.”
“Why’d you do all that?” I asked, impressed. I got up and found glasses and filled them with ice and water.
“Because there are certain people who don’t need to know you own this house. I had it built for you, and no one can take it away from you.” He gathered the food in his arms. “Let’s sit outside.”
“Our life is way too complicated. Already.” I set the glasses on the patio table.
“Unfortunately, ma lykita, we may be meant for each other, but not everyone likes it.” He pulled me onto his lap.
“In the normal world, I would just tell them to go to hell.”
“Yes, but in our world, they are already there. And that still doesn’t stop them.”
We sat in silence, eating cheese and crackers and grapes, and watched the boats pass by far out on the water. I munched on a cracker and traced the mark on his chest—the wings fascinated me—when there was a knock on the front door. We stiffened and looked at each other.
“Hmm . . . Stefan,” Tristan said.
I hurried into the bedroom to dress while Tristan answered the door. I felt like he minimized the danger besieging us, so I rushed, not wanting to miss anything. They were just sitting down outside when I came out and joined them.
“I was telling Tristan what a superlative estate this is,” Stefan said, as I took a seat at the back of the table, folding my legs underneath me. “Beautiful, private, easy to shield. A better safe house than Tristan’s place because no one even knows you are here.”
“That was the idea,” Tristan said.
Stefan told us the Daemoni still didn’t know about our marriage, but said they were unusually quiet, unlike their normal, boastful behavior. Tristan told him what he’d told me last night—the sooner they knew, the better. Stefan said he thought it fine for us to stay, but he’d discuss it with the council and let us know.
“I would highly recommend . . . well, insist . . .  you stay out of Key West,” Stefan said as he stood to leave. “You well know that is a prime hunting area for the Daemoni.”
“Yes, it’s a favorite stomping ground for them,” Tristan said, making my spine tingle unpleasantly. “Don’t worry. I’d rather they don’t know we’re even in the vicinity.”
We walked Stefan outside, and after saying goodbye, he walked off into a mess of trees and brush. I had no idea where he went from there. While we were outside, Tristan showed me around the three-acre property, complete with its own small, private beach. He said our property shared the tiny key with four other homes. Most people driving through wouldn’t even know there were homes at all—it looked like a wild jumble of overgrown vegetation from the highway.
The house was a big square, raised on stilts, with the ground level intended for storage. It had a light gray metal roof and darker bluish-gray stucco siding with white trim. The screened balcony off the family room and Caribbean room stretched across the full west side of the house. I hadn’t yet explored the two other bedrooms and bathroom on the east side.
“This wasn’t one of your models,” I pointed out once we made a full circle around the property.
“No, this is just a beach house. Those models were dream homes.”
“I can’t imagine anything better than this,” I said. “When did you do it? I never even knew.”
“Hmm . . . I did the drawings last August . . . when I met you.” He smiled down at me. “They broke ground in March . . . after you said ‘yes.’ I had to push hard to get it done in time since we kept moving the date up, but they did it. The important stuff, anyway. There are a few things they need to finish up.”
“Whoever they are, you’ll have to thank them for me.” I slid my arm around his waist and pressed against him as we walked up the stairs. “And you . . . well, I’ll never be able to thank you enough.”
“You already have, my love. More than you can ever know.” He gave me a squeeze and kissed the top of my head.
“So what are we doing today?” I asked as we entered the cool house, a relief from the heat outside.
Tristan glanced at the clock. “In about two hours, we need to go sign some papers to make this house officially the property of Katie Andrews’ trust.”
“So . . . we have two hours?” I asked, smiling mischievously.
“Hmm . . . that’s what I’m talking about.” He returned the smile, and I led him to the bedroom, leaving a trail of clothes.
We drove back to Islamorada to an attorney’s office to sign papers, Tristan supplying an array of documentation giving us both different names, his as the seller, Katie Andrews as the buyer. Afterward, Tristan took me to a couple of boutiques to buy clothes. They were a little too showy for my style, so I let him pick them out as I tried them on. He seemed to enjoy himself as much as a guy could and selected several sundresses. He bought a few things for himself, too, and we stopped for groceries.
Time passed strangely—sometimes charging forward, bringing us toward reality way too quickly, and other times seeming to stand still, feeling like the two of us existed in our own world with no cares. We did what we wanted. We sat on our beach and swam, sometimes skinny-dipping. Tristan disappeared for a few minutes one day and came back with snorkeling gear, so we snorkeled around our little beach. Well, I snorkeled; Tristan could hold his breath apparently for hours. We prepared new recipes every night, taking turns choosing what to make. We made love . . . I lost count how many times, but a lot. We stayed in bed as long as we wanted, just talking.
“When we do have children, how many do you want?” I asked him one morning as we snuggled in bed.
“If it were possible, I’d love to have twenty with you,” he said. “Making them is a lot of fun.”
“Twenty? I’d be barefoot and pregnant forever . . . or at least until the Ang’dora. I was thinking maybe three or four.”
He chuckled. “Whatever would make you happy would make me happy. However, Amadis daughters usually only have one baby—a daughter. That is all that is needed.”
“Really? Just one?” My heart sunk. “I want a boy . . . who is just like you.”
Tristan’s brows furrowed. “Wouldn’t be a good idea.”
“Why not? You’re perfect.” I kissed his chin.
He smiled. “You are perfect, ma lykita. And I hope our daughter will be just like you. Although, there’ll be problems when she gets older, since her old man and her mom seem to have anger issues.”
“Yeah, we’ll have to make Stefan or Owen her bodyguard to keep her out of trouble and to keep us from killing any poor, innocent boys.”
“There’s no such thing as an innocent boy, and that’s what I’d be worried about.”
I laughed. “So . . . you said we usually have only one baby. Is there any chance I can have a boy?”
“There’s a possibility. Boy-girl twins run in your family.”
“Twins? Cool! I wonder what the chances are.”
“I hope not much.” His eyes darkened. “Trust me—we really don’t want a boy.”
“That’s not fair. You get your little girl. I just want a little Tristan.”
He grunted. “If it does happen, we will not name him Tristan Junior.”
“No, we won’t,” I agreed. “You are my Tristan. I just know he’ll be like you. But what would you name him?”
“Never thought about it.”
“I’ve always liked Dorian.”
“Then, if we have a boy, his name will be Dorian.” He peered down at me. “But I’m serious, Alexis. Don’t get your hopes up for a boy.”
I didn’t like his tone, but didn’t want to argue, either. “So what about our daughter’s name?”
“We don’t make that decision. Rina will likely name her. It must carry on the Amadis royalty’s tradition.”
I frowned. “That’s not very fair either. We should get to name our own child.”
“We can make suggestions. Alexis had been my idea for you.”
I stared at him openmouthed. “Seriously?”
He nodded, grinning.
“Okay, that’s just weird. You named your future wife?”
He laughed. “We are weird, my love. Rina trusted me even then, had me sit in on council meetings. They asked me my opinion, and I gave it to them. It fits you perfectly. It means protector or defender.”
“Yeah, I looked it up once a long time ago, and I thought it was an oxymoron for me. At least until I punched that guy in the face. I’m not proud I broke his nose, but no one calls my mom a whore.” I cringed with a thought. “Of course, that was just the first guy I punched.”
Tristan chuckled and hugged me again. “Ma lykita. My fierce little protector.”
“And you are my ultimate warrior.”
“I’ll fight for you until the end of my days.”
“That would be forever.”
“As long as you are by my side, I hope that is true.”
* * *
We had many similar discussions about our future plans, keeping them on a happy note, avoiding the dark parts threatening our strange lives. It was easy to forget about our dangerous situation, because it felt like we lived in our own personal paradise. Like Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden . . . before Satan’s visit.
By the end of the second week, though, my mood shifted. Classes started soon, and the legal wedding approached, too. Unless something changed our plans, we’d have to go home. I cherished our peaceful time at the beach house and didn’t want it to end. On the other hand, we both grew a bit antsy, feeling somewhat confined.
“I wish we could go to Key West,” I said at the end of that second week as we ate breakfast. “It looks like fun.”
“You’re not really missing much,” Tristan said. “And it would definitely not be a good idea for us.”
“I know. I guess I’m just starting to feel a little cooped up here. I don’t want to leave, but I’d like to get out for a while.” I pushed the remainder of my pancakes around my plate, the blueberries leaving purple swirls in the syrup.
He watched me for a while, and then finally said, “I have an idea. Tomorrow, we go boating.”
That night, his truck and boat appeared outside, and the next morning, he packed up my snorkeling gear.
“Are you sure it’s safe?” I asked as we headed out on the water.
“We’ll be out in the middle of a big ocean. The worst things out there are sharks, and I can handle them.” He grinned. “In fact, that would be fun!”
I raised an eyebrow. “You’re not serious, are you?”
“About fighting with sharks? Absolutely. Especially when they try to get away. You just hang on and let them take you for a ride. Better than the WaveRunner.”
I laughed. “You’ve seriously ridden a shark?”
“Yep.”
“I don’t believe you.”
He shrugged. “I’ll show you, but we’ll need to find some.”
My eyes widened. “Okay, I believe you! Please don’t go looking for sharks.”
He laughed. “I thought you were bored.”
“Not that bored. Just find some pretty fish to look at.”
“How about lobsters? They just came in season.”
I nodded. “If you get the lobsters, I’ll cook them.”
“Deal.”
He took us south, until we could no longer see land and only saw another boat every now and then, and cut the engine. We lay in the sun, swam, and snorkeled. I was amazed at all the beautiful life under the water—yellow, blue, pink, and silver, solid, striped, and spotted fish, among other creatures. Tristan told me what we saw, but I couldn’t keep track of the incredible variety. There was much more to see here than there was at our beach. As promised, he caught two lobsters for dinner that night.
Toward the end of the day, I stretched out on the bow, letting the sun bake me dry. I lay on my stomach, about to doze off, when Tristan untied my top and started kissing my shoulders and down my spine. The warm sun and his electric touches made my skin tingle.
“Tristan . . .” I protested when he rolled me onto my back.
“There’s no one around for miles,” he murmured, keeping me from rolling back over by kissing me. About the time my body started to respond, he cocked his head for a moment, and then turned me back over. “I’m sure they’re just passing by.”
I lay there and listened as the sound of another boat’s engine grew louder as it came closer. It seemed to be approaching steadily, not fading out as it turned off.
“Or maybe not,” Tristan said, tying my strings for me.
I sat up to see the boat pulling up to us. The driver was alone. He apparently had spent many years on the water in the sun, his face the color and texture of beef jerky and his man-boobs hanging like leather pouches over his browned beer gut. My sense told me he was bad.
“He feels wrong,” I whispered to Tristan.
“It’s okay. He’s not them,” he said under his breath. He pulled his shirt on and handed me my sundress as the man gave me a slow once-over, giving me the heebie-jeebies. I put the dress on, not that it covered much.
“Hey, man, just wonderin’ if you saw any lobster down there,” Leatherman called to us, his voice as rough as his face, but friendly.
“Yeah, we saw a few,” Tristan answered, returning the genial tone. “Caught us a couple for dinner.”
They exchanged small talk as I watched the man suspiciously. I was surprised when Tristan invited him over to our boat, but I figured when you’re the “ultimate warrior” and it’s not a Daemoni trying to abduct your wife, you could be as friendly as you wanted to be. It can still bite you in the ass, though.
“You two look pretty young to be out here alone,” Leatherman said after a while.
“Looks can be deceiving,” Tristan answered with a small smile.
Misunderstanding, the man looked around. “You’re certainly alone for now.”
He was right. We couldn’t see land or another boat at all.
He suddenly jumped up and grabbed me with one hand. He held a knife in his other. “Just give me whatever money you got, and everyone’ll be okay.”
Damn it! One day out, and this son of a witch has to ruin it! Tristan looked at the man’s hand roughly gripping my arm. He shook his head and smirked. We caught each other’s eyes, and mine narrowed in anger. He nodded his head once. Using the techniques he’d taught me, I maneuvered out of Leatherman’s grip while shoving my elbow into his fat gut. Spit flew out of his mouth as he doubled over. Tristan grabbed and twisted his arm, the bone snapping audibly. He heaved the man back over to his boat. Rattling off every cuss word imaginable, Leatherman quickly took off.
“That was unpleasant,” Tristan said after he was gone.
“I told you I didn’t like him.” I scowled.
He chuckled. “Nice job.”
“You, too. But you didn’t have to break his arm.”
He made a face. “Do you forgive me?”
I nodded. I’d rather Leatherman’s arm be broken than my neck be slit. I hoped that didn’t make me a bad person. “Maybe he’ll learn his lesson. We make a good team, huh?”
“Yes, we do. I knew there was a good reason I married you.” He winked. I gazed at him while he started the engine, and we headed back to cook lobster.
Chapter 27
CHAPTER 27
Tristan’s phone woke us up a couple of mornings later.
“Hi, honey, sorry to bother you, I know you’re having a great time,” Mom babbled.
“It’s okay. It’s good to hear your voice.” I hadn’t realized how much I missed her.
“Well, I just couldn’t wait to tell you. Someone from a publisher called today, and she wants to read your first three chapters.”
“Really? Already?”
“Yeah, it helps when you know peop—” She cut herself off, as if she let something slip in her excitement.
I was too excited myself to ask what she meant. “You know where to find the file, right?”
“Yes, I’ll take care of it. This is great news. Whoa.” Her end fell silent.
“Mom? Are you still there?” She didn’t answer. “Sophia, what’s going on?”
“I don’t know,” she finally said. “It almost felt like a small earthquake.”
“You’re in Florida, Mom.”
“I know. There was something, though. Oh, Owen’s here. I need to go. I’ll call you back.” She hung up before I could even say goodbye.
“A publisher might be interested,” I told Tristan, nearly jumping up and down on the bed. “Can you believe it?”
He grinned and gave me a bear hug. “Of course I can. I told you, you’re very talented.”
Tristan’s phone rang again a while later. After looking at the number, he handed it to me. I barely had a chance to say “hello.”
“Put Tristan on the phone. Hurry!” Mom didn’t sound right at all.
I handed the phone back to him. “I’m here.”
A long pause. Then he sat bolt upright.
“Shit! Motherfuckers!” More silence as Mom spoke. “No, we’ll stay here for now . . . I’ll call them . . . I know . . . I will.”
He snapped the phone shut. Something’s wrong. Terribly wrong. I stared at him expectantly as he sat there in silence, his jaw twitching.
“Tristan . . . ?” I said quietly. He didn’t look at me, but stared at the wall.
“My house—our house—is gone,” he said flatly, distantly. “It exploded. Owen said it’s just burning rubble.”
“What?” I gasped.
He paced the room with angry strides. My eyes followed him, back and forth, as my mind raced, trying to make sense of it. Is that what shook the ground all the way at Mom’s house? It had to have been a major explosion to reach that far.
“FUCK!” He yelled, slamming his fists against his thighs and making me jump. My heart hammered against my chest as I continued to stare at him wide-eyed. “The fucking bastards!”
He was serious. His house is gone. Everything . . . gone.
“What happened?” Compared to his, my voice sounded small, frightened. I knew the answer, but didn’t want to say it.
“I’m not exactly sure, but I have a pretty damn good guess,” he seethed.
After he calmed down, he called the authorities. He held his head in one hand as he listened to them, barely saying anything on his end. He snapped the phone shut and jerked his hand as if to throw it against the wall, but he held onto it.
His voice was frighteningly calm when he explained. “Their initial assessment is something ignited fumes from the generator. They said it wasn’t properly shut off after the storm.”
I stared at him in disbelief and terror. “But . . . we didn’t use the generator.”
“I know.” He paced the room again.
The vision of his sleek house on the beach . . . the motorcycles and other toys . . . all he owned . . . everything exploding in flames filled my head.
“I can’t believe . . . your house . . . everything?”
He stopped pacing in front of me and lifted me in a hug. “It’s just stuff, my love. At least we weren’t there.”
“Do you think they knew we weren’t there?”
He held me tighter and said grimly, “Yes. I think it was a message.”
My stomach clenched. I thought I would be sick if I had anything in it. They know. We held each other in silence for several minutes. A pounding on the front door made us both jump.
“Stefan,” Tristan said, letting me go.
“Tristan, you have to get out of here. Immediately,” Stefan said, bursting through the door as soon as Tristan unlocked it.
“But, we can’t—” Tristan started, but Stefan interrupted.
“I know what happened, but you cannot stay here either. They know you are around here somewhere.”
“Son of a bitch!” Tristan pounded the counter, cracking the granite countertop. “How?”
“From what I have gathered, a local was drunk in Key West, complaining loudly about how a couple tried to rob him and broke his arm. He described you two perfectly, down to the mark on Alexis’s chest.” Stefan glanced at me, his expression grim. “They do not know exactly where you are, but they know you are in the Keys, and they are looking.”
“Alexis, get ready to go. Now,” Tristan ordered.
I hurried into the bedroom and threw whatever clothes I could get my hands on into our bags as quickly as my shaking hands allowed. Tristan closed all the shutters and locked up the house. We were on the road in five minutes and in Mom’s driveway in two hours.
“I need to see if there’s anything left at all,” Tristan said, not getting out of the car.
“But I want to⁠—”
“No, it’s not safe. You stay here with Sophia.” He leaned over and kissed me. “I won’t be long.”
He nudged me, and I grabbed our bags piled at my feet and hurried inside. Mom rushed to greet me with open arms. She squeezed me tightly and then pushed me back. Her face looked sick with worry.
“You need to pack just the bare necessities,” she said, the words coming in a rush. “We have to get out of here. Just the basics. And be sure to back up your book and wipe out your hard drive.”
I gave her a confused look.
“You heard me. We need to go. It’s not safe here anymore.”
I obeyed. I knew what “bare necessities” meant from previous departures—enough clothes for a couple days and important documents. That was all. I saved two copies of the book on two separate flash drives and erased the desktop’s hard drive. I gave one of the small drives to Mom and put the other in my own purse. We were ready to go by the time Tristan walked in the door. I flew into his arms. I hated being separated from him, and he, apparently, hated it, too, because he held me tightly.
“Anything?” I asked.
“No, didn’t look like it. I didn’t get too close, though. I’m sure it’s being watched.”
“We need to go now,” Mom said. “The Daemoni know about the marriage and your vows to the Amadis and claim it’s Provocation. They’ve given free rein on all Amadis . . . especially on royalty.”
Owen and Stefan burst through the door.
“Tristan, get her out of here!” Stefan barked.
Tristan pulled me out to the car and threw our bags into the tiny trunk space. My heart hammered for the first hundred miles we drove, headed north, as I stared out of the window in fear. I imagined demons surrounding us, flying over us, waiting for an opportunity to swoop down and attack. I wondered where we could go for safety. Can we ever get away?
Then deep sadness eclipsed the fear as I closed my eyes and visions of the past year played against my eyelids. It all seemed so innocent and safe. Will we ever have peace again? The tears fell silently as I absently played with the pendant on the chain. Tristan gently squeezed my hand.
“I rushed us right into this mess, didn’t I?” I said quietly.
He looked at me. “Don’t ever blame yourself for this, Alexis. This started before you were even born.”
“I insisted we get married, though.”
“It would’ve happened anyway, whether we married now or ten years from now. The marriage was inevitable . . . unless they managed to kill us first. So, at least we are married.” He squeezed my hand again. “I wouldn’t have it any other way. I’d rather fight for us forever than not have an us to fight for.”
I kissed his hand and held it against my face.
“I love you more than anything, ma lykita.”
“Together forever, right?”
“Absolutely.” He smiled and winked at me. I didn’t fog over. And that made me sadder.
We drove for hours, stopping only for gas. Finally, a little after midnight and somewhere near the South Carolina-North Carolina line, Tristan turned off the main highway, crisscrossed several country roads, and found a small town with a motel.
“We need to stop at the drugstore,” I said before he turned into the parking lot. I pointed at the 24-hour store down the road. “I didn’t have time to grab anything from the bathroom.”
Tristan sighed. “Make it quick.”
He stood at the store’s entry, pacing back and forth, watching me and the door at the same time. I loaded up on sample-size toiletries and toothbrushes. I couldn’t remember everything we needed, so I hurriedly glanced down each aisle to jog my memory. Feminine Hygiene. Uh-oh. I counted backwards in my head. Twice. Then a third time just to be sure. Crap. I looked for the box I needed, grabbed it, and headed to the front. I threw in a bunch of snack food at the register.
When he pulled in front of the motel office, Mom, Stefan, and Owen stepped out of a dark corner. Mom and Stefan stood by the car while Tristan paid for the adjoining rooms, and Owen disappeared to place a shield over the entire motel. I still didn’t know how he did it—I just took for granted that we were protected.
“Anything new?” Tristan asked the others once we were locked inside the rooms. I sat on a bed and pulled my knees to my chest.
“Nothing from Rina,” Mom answered.
“There have been a couple of attacks on my people, just because they can,” Stefan said. “But the Daemoni are really focused on you two. Fortunately, they do not know where you are. We have been able to sidetrack them, at least for the time being.”
“There’s still a safe house in Washington?” Tristan asked.
“It’s being cleared for us,” Mom said.
“We will need to divert them, though,” Stefan said. “Go on north, past the safe house, and double back the long way.”
They discussed a watch schedule so everyone could sleep, then Mom, Stefan, and Owen went into the other room. Tristan sat on the bed next to me and rummaged through the food sack. How can he eat? He opened a bag of chips and tossed a package of cheese crackers at me. The thought made my stomach lurch. I made a face.
“You need to eat,” he said.
“I don’t think I can.”
“You haven’t eaten for over twenty-four hours.” He opened the package. I took a few crackers to make him happy and after eating one, I realized how hungry I actually felt. I devoured the entire package and then started on a candy bar. Just as I swallowed the second bite, my stomach lurched again, and I had to run for the bathroom.
“You okay?” Tristan asked when I came back out.
“Am I weak if I admit I’m scared?” I asked.
“Of course not.” He brushed a strand of hair from my cheek. “You’re only human.”
But that was the problem.
He lay down with me, and I trembled in his arms. I woke up once after a nightmare, and the room was dark. I was alone in the bed.
“Tristan?” I whispered.
“I’m here, my love,” he answered from somewhere else in the room. It must have been his turn to keep watch.
I felt Mom climb into the bed next to me. She gave my arm a squeeze, and I fell back to sleep.
* * *
“Lexi, ma lykita,” Tristan murmured, nuzzling my neck. “You need to wake up.”
He picked me up and carried me into the bathroom, shutting and locking the door behind us. He kissed me fully awake.
“What are you doing?” I asked between kisses.
“We only have thirty minutes, and it’s been nearly twenty-four hours since I made love to my wife.” He began undressing me.
“Now? Here?” Despite the verbal protests, I automatically responded to his touch.
“Just be very careful so we don’t break anything. I’ve already paid in cash.”
He turned the water on, and we stepped into the shower together. The bathtub was tiny, and we had to be careful, so making love to him wasn’t nearly as wonderful as it usually was in the shower. But it was real. And it was for us, when everything else was against us. I gave myself to Tristan, not knowing when the next time would be that we could enjoy each other.
Thirty minutes later, we left the motel. Mom, Stefan, and Owen disappeared while Tristan and I drove for hours. I stared out the window, barely noticing the changing landscapes as we sped north, past the Washington, D.C., area, up through northern Maryland, and briefly crossed into Pennsylvania. Every time we stopped for gas, Mom, Stefan, and Owen waited for us, as if they’d somehow been following. Mom accompanied me to the bathroom, and she didn’t say anything, but gave me a knowing look when I vomited. My stomach stayed knotted with fear.
In the afternoon, we looped back, dropping down into Northern Virginia. As we had several times already, we exited off the highway to take the back roads, sometimes crossing and retracing our path.
“We’re getting close,” Tristan finally said at about five in the afternoon.
We were somewhere in Fairfax County, Virginia. Though it was only twenty miles from where we lived in Arlington, I didn’t know the area. The busy suburbia tapered into a more rural area, with large colonial-style mini-mansions in estate-type subdivisions. Then the subdivisions dissipated, and houses were scattered on large acreage lots, thick woods separating them. We turned down a narrow street, sunlight filtering through the trees encroaching both sides.
“Shit,” Tristan swore under his breath. The street dead-ended about two hundred yards away.
“Are we lost?”
“No.” His jaw clenched. “We’re surrounded.”
My stomach rolled. Acid shot up my throat, and I clamped my hand over my mouth. I trembled all over.
“Hang on, ma lykita. Things could get ugly.” He slammed on the accelerator.
We tore down the narrow street. I wanted to squeeze my eyes closed before we flew into the wooded dead end, but my eyelids peeled back, refusing to shut. Just before we reached the end, the trees surrounding us opened into a large meadow. A grand mansion stood toward the back of it. Tristan sped for the structure.
A man suddenly appeared in the meadow, to our left. He turned toward us. Someone else flew out of nowhere, knocking him to the ground. More people started appearing with faint pops. Voices yelled over the Ferrari’s engine. They started fighting each other, and the car slid and fishtailed as Tristan swerved to avoid them. I turned in my seat to watch as we passed.
Some shot unseen powers at their opponents, sending them backwards several yards. They were instantly on their feet, shooting power back at their assailants. Others traded violent blows in hand-to-hand combat. A long object sailed across the window. My head whipped toward where it came from. One of the people fighting had lost an arm. But he kept fighting, unfazed.
Holy hell! Who are these people? I didn’t even know who was Amadis and who was the enemy. They all fought viciously, like animals. Is this what it means to be Amadis? Is this what I’m in for the rest of my life? Rina said Amadis were good, full of love, ruled by Heaven. Not this . . . this repulsive brutality.
The Ferrari abruptly stopped. My hands flew to the dash to brace myself before I sailed headfirst through the windshield. The car door flew open, and my body left the car seat and air rushed by. Then I was suddenly set on my feet inside the mansion. Owen stood next to me, and Tristan appeared right behind us. My stomach heaved.
“Bathroom!” I squeaked. Another rush of air, and I stood in front of a porcelain toilet. I leaned over and puked. Then my knees buckled as I fell to the floor, my body shaking violently.
“It’s okay, honey. You’re safe now,” Mom said, pressing a cool, wet washcloth against my forehead. I had no response.
Eventually the trembling stopped, and I tentatively stood. Mom led me down the hall to a dark living room filled with antique furniture. The curtains were drawn tightly shut, but I could still hear fighting outside. Rina rose from a wing-backed chair to my right and opened her arms wide.
“Alexis, my poor dear,” she said. Her power washed over me as she embraced me. “Ah, a baby . . . or two?”
I stepped back and stared at her. A baby? Or two? Mom frowned and nodded. I’d completely forgotten about the pregnancy test I’d picked up at the drugstore last night. Tristan appeared in the doorway behind Rina. His brows momentarily furrowed, then he smiled at me, his eyes sparkling. For two beats. Then the smile disappeared.
He took my hand and led me through the doorway, into a library. Books lined the shelves, floor-to-ceiling, wall-to-wall. At each corner of the room sat a pair of chairs with a small wooden table between them, a reading lamp on each table. They were all lit, the only light in the room as there were no windows. Tristan took me over to one of these sitting areas and pushed me down into a leather chair.
“I need to talk to you,” he said, kneeling in front of me to look me in the eye.
An ominous feeling brushed my shoulders and slid down my spine. I narrowed my eyes. “I don’t think I’m going to like this.”
“No, you’re not. I hate it myself.” His eyes were dark, the gold sparkle from just a few minutes ago gone. He took a deep breath and let it out slowly as he rubbed a hand over his face. Then he looked me square on. “I need to go out there.”
“What? No!”
“I can put an end to it, Lexi.”
Of course he can. Nobody can beat him. But I shook my head.
“You can’t go fight! What if you don’t come back?” I choked on the last word, my voice cracking as I spit it out.
“I may not have to fight. They only need to see proof I’ve given myself to you and the Amadis and that I am truly part of the royal family.”
“Oh.” My chest loosened from the grip of panic. “Well, that’s not so bad. Let’s give them proof. What do we do?”
I searched his face, and he looked away from me for a moment, then back into my eyes. He pulled the collar of his shirt down to expose the Amadis mark.
“They have to see it for themselves,” he said grimly. “They’ve set a meeting place for me to meet Lucas.”
Chapter 28
CHAPTER 28
Lucas—the sperm donor, their leader, their most powerful warrior.
I shook my head violently. “Absolutely not.”
“Lexi, it’s the only way.”
“It’s a trap, Tristan. You can’t go to them!”
“I know it’s a trap. But if I don’t go, they’ll continue to fight and attack. They’ll continue to hunt us. I put everyone’s lives in danger.”
I shook my head. Tears stung my eyes. “No. You can’t do this!”
I threw my arms around him, thinking if I held him tight enough, he couldn’t go.
“I have to,” he said. “I’ve made a vow to you and the Amadis that I would lay my life down for you.”
“You also vowed you would never leave me. They’re going to take you or . . . kill you!”
He grabbed my upper arms and pushed me back so he could look into my eyes. I quivered in his hands.
“They can’t take me down, Lex, remember that. They don’t know how to kill me.”
“Then they’ll take you away.”
“Nothing will keep me from you, my love. I will return to you.” He pulled me into his arms. “And then we can be together in peace.”
I leaned back and looked him in the eyes. “Then take me with you if you’re that confident. If they stop fighting, then there’s no danger, right? And if it’s a trap, like we know it is, we can at least be together.”
“Absolutely not!” he growled angrily.
I stood up and strode around the room. “See! You don’t know for sure this will work. You don’t know that you’ll come back. They don’t want us together, Tristan, unless we’re with them. If they’re going to get you, they’re getting me, too!”
“Stop the nonsense!” He grabbed me by the arms again. “You have to stay here, no matter what happens. You have a purpose, and you have to do it for the Amadis.”
“But I need you,” I cried. “I can’t do it without you. I can’t live without you!”
I fell against him and sobbed. He held me, stroking my hair.
“You won’t have to live without me,” he said softly. “I will come back to you. Nothing can stop me. But I have to do this. For the Amadis. For you. For us.”
I cried in his arms. My gut told me this was it. Once I let him go, I had no idea if I’d ever see him again. I held his face in my hands and looked into his eyes.
“Promise me,” I whispered. “Promise you’ll come back.”
“I promise,” he said firmly. “I can’t live in this world without you, Alexis. I’ll be back, no matter what happens. I will come back to you.”
He sealed the promise with a kiss, loving yet urgent . . . like it was one of our last.
Then he took my necklace off, stood up, and fished something out of his jeans pocket. He thread a small key onto the chain and clasped the necklace back around my neck.
“Guard this with your life,” he said. “This is literally the key to our future.”
I nodded as I held the key and the pendant in my hand. He pulled an envelope out of his back pocket and handed it to me.
“Keep this in a safe place, too. There are copies, but you should have this.”
“But you’re coming right back,” I reminded him.
“Yes. I’m just taking precautions.” He nuzzled his face against my neck as he rubbed his hand over my lower abdomen. “You stay safe. You’re carrying precious cargo.”
I nodded as more tears leaked. He leaned down and kissed my currently flat belly.
“You need to come back for all of us,” I whispered. “We need you.”
“I will. I swear to you.” He crushed his lips to mine, and I could only hope I communicated a fraction of the love I had for him, because there was too much to be held in just one kiss. Too much for all the kisses in the world.
He pulled me by the hand back into the other room, where Mom, Rina, Solomon, Owen, and Stefan stood. They all turned toward us, their faces bleak.
“Ready, Tristan?” Stefan asked.
Tristan nodded stiffly. My resolve fell.
“No!” I cried. “Please, don’t. Please, Tristan. Don’t leave me!”
He hugged me again, and I clung to him.
“Please, don’t do this,” I sobbed.
“I’ll be back.” He kissed me one last time, and I looked at him, into those adoring hazel eyes, memorizing his beautiful face. I inhaled deeply, taking in his scent—mangos and papayas, lime and sage, and a hint of man—capturing it to memory. He smiled sadly, and I clung to his last words. “I love you, ma lykita.”
“I love you, my sweet Tristan.”
He grasped my shoulders and gently pushed me into Mom’s arms. Then the men left the room, leaving us three women, the leader and future leaders, behind. When they opened the front door, fighting sounds filled the air. The window rattled loudly as something hit it.
“Down to the shelter,” Rina ordered. I reluctantly followed them. As we passed through the foyer, I glanced through the still-open door and saw Tristan several steps ahead of the others, leading them out to battle.
“No!” I yelled. I ran for the front door. Tristan’s hand flicked, and the door slammed shut just as I reached it. I banged my fists against it. “No! I have to watch. I need to know what’s going on.”
My feet left the ground, and the air rushed past me again. Rina carried me, speeding through a hallway, then down several flights of stairs. I struggled in her arms, but she was unbelievably strong. She finally stopped, setting me down in a small room with concrete walls, lit by a single lamp dangling from the center of the ceiling. Mom pushed the concrete door closed, securing it with a large, wooden beam across the center. Four maroon recliners, each with a blanket folded over its back, and a coffee table furnished the room. Shelves full of food and jugs of water lined one wall. A toilet sat in a corner and a sink was bolted to the wall next to it. The three of us could easily stay here for several days. I certainly hoped that wasn’t the plan. I couldn’t wait that long to see Tristan again, to know he was safe.
“Alexis, close your eyes,” Rina said. “I will show you what is happening.”
I inhaled deeply as I stared at her, trying to comprehend. She tapped her finger against her forehead.
“I can see. I can share.”
Mom sat in one of the leather recliners and closed her eyes. I dropped into another and closed mine. A vision appeared in my head, as if I stood in the clearing in front of the house. Tristan’s mere appearance wasn’t enough to stop the fighting. Through others’ eyes, we viewed the battle scene, the angles changing as Rina tapped into different minds. Sometimes she gave commands to the soldiers. Sometimes we heard the terrifying thoughts of the Daemoni, then Rina would warn the Amadis what they were about to do. Sometimes she cut my visions off.
“I am sorry, dear, but there are some things I cannot allow you to see,” she said to me.
I gnawed on my bottom lip, grateful to see any of it and not have to rely on my unruly imagination. But, as the battle heated, I didn’t know if even my imagination could be worse than this. I had to fight the urge to not watch because I had to know Tristan and the others were okay.
It felt like we stood in the middle of it all. A blue light shot across our current vision, blasting its target into bits. Another light zipped right past us. A tree split with a loud crack. A piece of the fallen tree flew through the air, taking someone down. Stefan and Owen ran around the scene, shooting unseen powers out of their hands, knocking Daemoni to the ground. Everything—powers or solid objects—sent at Owen bounced back before it hit him, as if he were protected in an invisible bubble.
Out of our peripheral vision, we could see Solomon, and something was off with him. Rina changed minds to see him better. His expression was blank, though he held a severed hand in his right palm. I gasped when we saw the stump of his left arm, realizing he held his own hand. He placed the wrist of the detached hand against the stump and a second later, his fingers wiggled, then closed into a fist and opened again. What. The. Fuck? He reattached his hand! I wondered if we could all heal such a terrible injury, but I immediately forgot the thought as a Daemoni jumped at him. He grabbed her by the shoulders. His head dove toward her throat. And that’s when I noticed his teeth. Especially his eyeteeth. Have they always been so long? So pointed? Rina instantly changed views.
I recognized Ian, standing away from the mayhem, his dull red hair shaking around his face as he cackled at the scene. Then a round object suddenly flew at us. I flinched, expecting it to actually hit me. It landed at our feet. We looked down to see a human head rolling to a stop. My stomach jumped. Acid burnt the back of my throat.
From another view, we watched from farther back, at the house. I heard the Amadis fighter’s thoughts as he told Rina he was injured, but he could be her eyes to see the full scene. At Rina’s order, he looked down. His leg ended in bloody shreds where the knee should be. He held it in his hands, but they looked more like . . . claws. Then there were several popping sounds, and his head snapped up. He focused on Tristan. I forced myself to watch.
Tristan fought off several Daemoni as dog-like creatures appeared all around him. Dogs or wolves? I couldn’t tell from this viewpoint. They were definitely larger than any canine I’d ever seen, a few nearly as tall as Tristan. He shot power at them. Some fell to the ground. Others soared back several yards. The creatures continuously sprang and lunged at him. At first, he held them off. He whacked at them with his arms. He kicked them across the meadow. He blasted them with his force. Owen shot his power at the creatures, too, trying to keep them back.
But more popped into existence. Pop! Pop! Pop! Dozens of them.
I gripped the chair’s arms, suppressing the irrational urge to run out there and help. Not that I could do anything against these . . . these monsters. But I felt so useless just watching the horror.
Daemoni and their creatures continued appearing all over the estate’s lawn, and they swarmed onto Tristan. Oh, no! Oh, God, no! There’s too many! I cried out as a creature lunged at Tristan and grabbed onto his arm with its mouth. Its teeth dug into his skin, not letting go. Then a second one attached to his other arm. Another Daemoni jumped on his back.
Then there was Edmund. He glanced briefly at Tristan, then strode toward us, toward the mansion. He waved his hand and several creatures followed him.
But not enough to relieve Tristan. He fought off the beasts while eyeing Edmund. His eyes narrowed, and his chest lifted. He heaved a breath of exasperation.
Then he looked right at us.
His eyes bored into our seer’s, through Rina’s mind and into mine, as if he knew I could see him. And our eyes locked. Rina switched to his thoughts. His lovely voice reverberated in my head.
“I love you, ma lykita.”
We flew through the air and tackled Edmund.
And then we went blank.
Rina switched back to the mind of the soldier near the house. The meadow was nearly empty. A few stragglers disappeared with pops, and now everyone was gone. Including Tristan. My eyes flew open.
“Where’d he go?” I screamed, jumping to my feet. I looked wildly around the concrete room, disoriented for a moment. Mom and Rina finally opened their eyes, too.
“They are all gone,” Rina said quietly. “I cannot find any thoughts out there. Nowhere in my range.”
“He’s gone to meet Lucas, hasn’t he?” I demanded.
Rina nodded.
“Will they make it back?”
Neither Rina nor Mom answered me this time. They stared at the floor. Tristan hadn’t gone alone—every Amadis fighter out there went, too. Which meant there would be more fighting.
I fell back into the chair and dropped my head into my hands. I pressed the heels of my palms against my eyes, trying to push away the scene replaying on the backs of my eyelids. The heavy weight of it all . . . the bodies dropping, convulsing on the ground, some completely still, dead . . . pressed down on me, trying to crush me into the chair, into the floor.
“Is this who we are?” I asked. “This is what we do? Fight deadly battles?”
This was what I waited so long to find out? That we were really no better than our enemies?
“When we need to, yes,” Rina said, taking a seat. “We try to prevent these kinds of atrocities. We prefer not to fight. We are good, Alexis. But we are the Angels’ army on Earth. We must do what they need us to do. We must fight for what is right.”
The Angels’ army . . . the phrase bounced around my skull. It should sound empowering, but all I could think about was the fighting. The blood and pain. The deaths. My hands pressed against my belly as I tried to draw hope from the tiny lives inside. But I only felt despair. What kind of world am I bringing them into? What kind of lives would they lead?
Mom and Rina had been right all along. I was not ready for this. The Ang’dora would make me more like them and better able to comprehend and accept. I hoped. Right now, my feeble human mind could not relate.
I had to focus on something that made more sense—that was more within my grasp of understanding.
“Is this why we moved all the time?” I finally asked Mom. “I always thought it was the men. Were we being hunted, and I just didn’t know it?”
Mom sighed. “No, honey. The Daemoni never bothered us until they discovered you and Tristan together.”
“Oh. So, then, why did Owen come into the picture? He was around for months before the Daemoni knew anything. Right?”
Mom didn’t answer at first. She pursed her lips and stared at the concrete wall for several moments. “Remember how I knew Tristan was close before you ever brought him to the store?”
It only took a moment to understand. “Owen didn’t come to protect me from the Daemoni. He came to protect me from Tristan.”
Mom nodded. “At the time, I thought you needed it.”
I chuckled darkly. “And I thought you tried to set us up.”
Mom chuckled, too. “Actually, I’ll admit I thought he was a better choice for you. But I was obviously mistaken. That weekend I went away, I went to see Rina, and she was still adamant you and Tristan belonged together. I guess I knew it all along somewhere in my heart. I didn’t try as hard as I could have to convince you or Tristan to stay apart. Of course, my power wouldn’t have worked anyway. It can’t be used to change what’s meant to be.”
“I do not know why you tried so hard to prevent it, Sophia,” Rina said. “But at least it brought you to me for a personal visit, after so many years of your absence.”
“You know we stayed away for Alexis’s good,” Mom said. “But now it looks like we will stay close. Today will not be the end.”
“No, it will not,” Rina murmured.
Thick silence filled the small room.
“So why didn’t the Daemoni bother us all those years?” I asked Mom to keep the conversation going. I needed a distraction.
She shrugged. “They don’t fare well with me, and they gave up coming near me.”
“Why?”
“Tristan isn’t the only one I brought over to the Amadis. In fact, Lucas is the only one I didn’t convert, given the opportunity.” Despair colored her tone. For some reason, she still grieved over him. I hadn’t realized the extent of her power of persuasion—or why she had been given that gift.
“We moved so much for many reasons,” she continued. “We wouldn’t have been able to stay in one place for too long anyway—people would notice I don’t age. But that never became an issue. Sometimes, it was just because of who we are—like when you fell off the slide when you were in kindergarten and the cuts that should’ve needed stitches healed on their own, or the fleabag who tried to molest you and I nearly killed him, or the boy you sent sailing across the yard. Other times, though, you’re right, it was the men.”
“I never understood that. How come you always left them?”
“Well . . . Normans—normal humans—can’t handle our love. I think you’ve experienced the results of our passion?” She looked at me and raised an eyebrow. “Bruises, broken furniture . . . I’m surprised the whole house didn’t fall down with you two.”
I couldn’t help the small smile tugging at the corners of my mouth, even in my distress.
“You don’t even have your full power or strength—you don’t have a small fraction of it. Imagine what could happen to a normal man with me.”
“Oh,” I said, considering the potential injuries.
“Add that to the extreme love I feel for everyone—the same love you’ll feel after the Ang’dora,” she continued. “We can’t help who we are. Unfortunately, sometimes the ones we love aren’t capable of handling it. I had to leave before I hurt them, emotionally or physically. It was always after they became too persistent about sex or when they proposed.”
“Wow, I had it wrong.”
She reached over and patted my hand. “I could never tell you what was really going on. I’m just happy you have a relationship where you never have to worry about it.”
That was the wrong thing to say. It reminded me the other half of said relationship was gone . . . and I didn’t know when I would see him again. Tears rolled down my cheeks as we sat in silence for what felt like hours. The stillness got to me after a while, and I paced the small room, gripping my pendant, and sliding it back and forth on the chain, pushing the little key with it. Then Rina suddenly stood up.
“Owen is back. The shield is replaced.”
I bounced on the balls of my feet as she and Mom unbarred and slid back the concrete door. They grabbed me and sped up the stairs. We stopped in the foyer as soon as Owen burst through the front door. He stumbled inside, his face stark white.
“Owen!” Mom cried with relief. He stood there stiffly, his eyes wild.
I flew into his arms, standing on my toes to look over his shoulder for the others. I knew immediately something was dreadfully wrong. This was not laid-back Owen. His back was rigid. His face twisted in pain or grief or . . . horror.
“Where’s Tristan?” I asked, searching the empty space behind him, panic already rising. He didn’t answer or even look at me, his arms stiff around my shoulders.
“Where are the others?” Rina asked.
“There were too many,” he finally said, his arms falling limply to his side. “They kept coming. Too many to fight at once. Stefan . . .” He couldn’t finish, a mix of defeat and grief on his face.
“No!” Rina and Mom gasped. He nodded.
“Sheffie?” I whispered, tears springing to my eyes.
“He’s . . . dead,” Owen confirmed darkly. Oh, no! God, no!
“Tristan?” I cried. He didn’t answer.
“We never made it to the meeting place. They mobbed us. Only three of us got away,” Owen said bleakly. “Solomon, me, and . . .”
I didn’t hear the last person, already screaming the only name I needed to hear. I grabbed his shirt and shook him. “Where is he? Where is Tristan?”
He just shook his head, not looking at me, not saying anything.
“WHERE IS HE, DAMN IT?” I yelled, panic and hysteria gripping my heart.
“I-I d-don’t know,” he finally whispered. “There were dozens on him. I think he’s . . .”
His voice trailed off.
And the earth stood still. It stopped spinning on its axis and just hung in dead space as I stared at Owen and tried to comprehend what he was saying. The meaning was right there, stuck in midair between Owen and me, but my mind wouldn’t, couldn’t, refused to grasp it. Then the realization crashed down on me like a semi-load of concrete blocks. And the world lurched into motion again, spinning way too fast, swirling around me in dizzying blurs.
“NO!” I cried. My chest caved in, and my stomach heaved like it had been punched, sending my heart into my throat. I choked on it, sobbing. “NO! NO! NO!”
I beat Owen with my fists. Mom pulled me off, into her arms.
“NO!” I screamed again as loud as I could, and the word echoed around the two-story foyer. “Oh, God, no! Not my Tristan . . .”
I collapsed to the floor and cried, refusing to believe it. I pounded the stone floor until my fists bled. I felt like I could die. Like my heart had been crushed into pulp and twisted out of my chest. I wanted to die. Babies or no babies, I wanted to be with my Tristan. I could not do this without him.
Mom tried to comfort me. I pushed her off.
“He can’t die!” I yelled at her. “He’s supposed to be invincible. Immortal!”
“Honey,” she said softly, “nobody’s truly immortal. Not in this world.”
“What do you feel?” I cried. She didn’t answer. “Rina?”
Rina shook her head, tears in her eyes.
“Oh, God, noooo . . .” I sobbed into the floor.
Tristan’s beautiful face swam in front of my eyes, his sublime smile, his love-filled, hazel eyes looking into mine, the green shining and the gold flecks sparkling. I heard his lovely voice murmur, “I love you, ma lykita,” as if his lips were right against my ear. And my heart shattered into pieces, knowing I couldn’t reach out and touch him although he felt so close. So close. Right here, with me.
“He’s not dead,” I cried into the floor. “He’ll come back.”
And I had to believe that because there was just no other option. I had to hold onto it. He promised.
And when he didn’t come, my life fell into a black pit of nothingness.
Epilogue
EPILOGUE
8 MONTHS LATER
“CHOO-CHOO-CHOO” I panted through clenched teeth, keeping a train’s rhythm, just as Mom instructed.
“Okay, honey,” she said from between my legs. “Get ready . . . almost . . . again! PUSH!”
She didn’t have to tell me. I could feel the pressure on my lower belly, squeezing inside, and all I wanted to do was push. I heaved down, pushing with every bit of strength I had left.
“I see the head. Almost there.”
Yeah, no kidding. I felt the head, like a basketball wedged halfway inside me, ripping me apart. I’d been in labor for nearly two days. I’d been pushing for what seemed like hours. But my strength was sapped, leaving me too weak to keep going. The edges of my vision faltered. Pinpricks of light popped in front of my eyes.
“You need to push harder than that, hon.” Her voice faded with each word.
“Alexis?” Rina sounded so far away, she must have been in another world.
Mom said something about my blood pressure and lots of blood, but the sounds diminished into nothing at all. I couldn’t see anything but grays. And then blackness.
* * *
When I came to, Mom was tucking a tiny bundle into the crook of my arm and turning it toward my breast.
“Your son, honey,” she said, aligning his mouth with my nipple. His eyes fluttered, and he briefly looked up at me, the steel-blue of a newborn. The few strands of his hair were still wet and plastered to the side of his head. He latched on, his lips moving slowly, awkwardly as he drank for the first time.
“Dorian Stefan,” I whispered through a groggy daze, tears brimming over and sliding down my face. One dropped onto his cheek. I gently wiped my finger across the downy softness of his skin. I fell right to sleep as he suckled.
I awoke screaming. It was typical for me. The same nightmare every night ended my dreams with terror. But this time was different. Not the dreams. Just the panic gripping me.
“My babies! Where are my babies?” I shrieked.
“Rina’s changing Dorian,” Mom said from a chair beside my bed. She sounded tired and . . . something else.
I calmed with the realization I was in my own bedroom. Well, it’d been my bedroom here at the safe house for eight months. It wouldn’t be much longer. We’d have to move, as soon as the babies and I were strong enough. Which meant I wouldn’t be able to stare out the window at the last place I saw Tristan, as I’d been doing since that dreadful day, waiting for his return. The last time I saw him was, of course, a horrendous memory . . . but my last memory of him, nonetheless.
Now, he’d missed the birth of his babies. How much more would he miss? As far as I knew, we’d heard nothing since his disappearance, though I lay in bed withdrawn into myself, just trying to stay healthy enough for the babies’ survival while my world fell apart around me. But if anyone knew anything, they didn’t tell me.
“What about my daughter?” I asked. “I haven’t even met her yet.”
Mom moved from her chair to sit on the side of my bed. She took my hand in hers. Her expression was bleak.
“Honey,” she said, her voice rough and thick. Something was wrong. “Honey . . . you don’t have a daughter.”
I stared at her, uncomprehending. “Of course, I do. We have to have a daughter.”
All Amadis daughters had baby girls. We didn’t even accept a male sperm unless a female embryo was already formed. This much I had learned. A girl was needed for the future of the Amadis. How could I not have a daughter? Mom and Rina had both sensed a girl in the womb.
Mom shook her head slowly. A tear trickled down her cheek. “I’m sorry, honey. We were wrong. For some reason we don’t know right now . . . you just didn’t have one.”
I swallowed hard. “No daughter? What happens to the Amadis now?”
Mom shook her head slowly. Her words came out so quietly, I barely heard her. “We don’t know.”
“Is there any hope at all? Can I still have a girl? I mean, when Tristan comes back?”
“No Amadis daughter has been pregnant more than once.” The corner of Mom’s mouth lifted in a half-grimace-half-smile. “But that’s what we hope for. After all, you are unique.”
Obviously. Always different. Never normal, not even with the weird stuff.
“Right now, you have this beautiful little babe,” Rina said, entering the room with Dorian cradled in her arms.
I hadn’t really seen her since shortly after that fateful day. She had to return home to attend to business as matriarch of the Amadis. By the time she arrived for the birth, I was deep in labor and barely aware of her presence.
Rina looked at me now and smiled, but despite how hard she tried to hide it, I saw the sadness and disappointment in her eyes. She placed Dorian in my arms and left the room. Guilt overcame me. I really screwed up. Why do I have to be so messed up? Though I had no control of it, it was my fault the Amadis would collapse.
I looked down at the precious bundle in my arms. His hair was dry and fluffy now. He didn’t have much of it, but what was there was a shocking light blond, almost white. I could see his dad in his features already. He opened his eyes, and I was surprised they already changed colors. They were no longer newborn-blue. They had wide, emerald-green rings on the outside of the irises and brown around the pupils. And yes, tiny gold flecks that sparkled.
Tears streamed down my face, happy and sad tears mixed together. Dorian was the greatest gift I’d ever received. He was a little bit of his father I could finally hold again. I felt so blessed to have him, but the despair of no daughter weighed heavily. As did Tristan’s absence.
Nearly two years ago, I thought I knew what I wanted: a career as a writer, a family, true love, and an explanation of the quirks that made me weird. Now I was about to become a published author, my first book due out in six months. I didn’t yet have a full explanation of who I really was, but I knew I would one day lead the Angels’ army, fighting real-life Demons, although I was half-Daemoni myself. But, without another daughter, the Amadis would end when I did.
Only two things mattered now: family and true love. I was a mother now, a single-mother in most ways, but I refused to believe I was a widow. Nobody knew if my true love was dead or alive, but I knew. I could still feel him. I knew he would return to me. He promised. I had to hold onto that promise and to Dorian. Otherwise, I could feel an abyss not far away—a darkness I could easily slip into, letting the evil blood within my veins consume me if I wasn’t careful.
Dorian started crying, and I held him against my chest, sobbing with him. His tiny hand flailed, then latched onto my pendant. He quieted immediately. I wrapped my own hand around his to keep him from yanking on it. Warmth radiated from the pendant, through Dorian’s hand and into mine.
“That’s our link to Daddy, Dorian,” I whispered against his cheek. “He can’t be here, but he’ll be back soon, and then everything will be okay. Right now, you be my light, okay? Keep me out of the darkness.”
His little fingers released the pendant and grasped my pinkie. And I swore I felt a squeeze of affirmation. Another vow made among many.
But only time would tell if our futures relied upon the strength of an Angel’s covenant . . . or the lure of a Demon’s promise.

########

MARIENBAD MY LOVE - PART 1

This morning I saw a porpoise not 30 yards from here. At first I caught only a
passing sideways glimpse of the dorsal fin, and I panicked that it was a shark. But no –
that’s surely wrong, I told myself. There are no sharks here. Only memories – memories,
deities and ghosts.
I’m leaving today, driving right off this island. You look doubtful, but it’s true. I
have found the old reef road! The wooden marker posts of pioneer days are long gone,
but I don’t need them to know I’ve found the spot. The water barely covers my ankles.
The reef road shouldn’t be here, but at North Beach on the other side of Corpus
Christi Bay. And yet, here it is – my salvation. The oyster shells make a solid road bed,
so I should have no trouble. At low tide I’ll drive across the Laguna Madre and back to
dry land, carrying my Incredible Revelation – my reality-altering, conclusion-of-time
vision – into the waking world of commonplace art and conventional theologies. A short
trip across the public beach, and I’ll disappear into the anonymous traffic of Shoreline
Drive, past the beachfront mansions.
Look, you can see them from here. Are they not beautiful, these vast and
magnificent homes? Here is one worth noting, a tragic mansion of an earlier time. Notice
how the grounds are in the Uruguayan style and yet without shrubbery, blossoms or
vegetation of any kind. Here we find a past of Carrara marble, a past carved in stone –
intersecting lines, reserved, ripe with inscrutability. Upon initial viewing it appears
impossible to get lost here along the linear walkways between the unassailable statues
and marble embellishments. And yet I am, even now, losing myself forever – losing
myself in my own prophetic utterances, alone in my Patmosian exile. Alone without you.
Luh? She is fine. However, she will not be accompanying me on my trip. This
time I will be traveling solo.
So what occurred with Luh?
Picture me flying, rocketing through the sky like Christopher Reeve in Superman,
my right fist thrust before me. I am flying over a parking lot, heading for a landing next
to a woman who is pregnant with my son. There is a complication: This woman is not my
wife. I have not spoken with her at all during her pregnancy, and she’s already in her
second trimester. It’s definitely time to pay her some attention.
- 2
Next, we are in a sort of cave, except most of the ceiling is missing, open to the
sky. I think of a movie I am making, that I have already scripted. It’s called “Next Year at
Marienbad.” As I look around at the walls of the cave, it occurs to me that I could
become trapped. Always there are walls, everywhere around me. Mute, deserted – walls
of baroque embellishments, mahogany veneer, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames,
Carrara marble. Dark glass, obscure illustrations, Romanesque columns, sculptured
thresholds, lines of doors, colonnades, oblique hallways leading to deserted meeting
rooms paneled in the baroque embellishments of an earlier time. Mute rooms, where
footsteps are lost. Sculpted berber so profound, so deep that one perceives no step. The
walls are everywhere, enclosing me.
But I don’t panic. I tell myself that this place needn’t be safe all the time, just
during this short time I am here. I won’t be trapped. If I can just set aside my neuroses
and free-floating anxieties for a bit, I may even enjoy it.
The cave is a pretty place, with pools of still water and patches of rye grass and
moss. I talk to the woman who will bear my child. She is Luh. Or maybe Cinnamon. Or
maybe you.
I tell her I am not sure if I should tell my two sons about the baby. I would have to
admit to extramarital sex. (I don’t mention that my wife might not appreciate this
admission, either.) On the other hand, I think the boys should know about their half
brother. After all, this new divine entity will grow up to create “Next Year at Marienbad,”
the movie that will bring about the End of the World – and the beginning of the New
Religion.
Luh is incredibly supportive. She tells me I should do whatever I think is best. I
shouldn’t worry over the details. Her family is rich. (Her father was one of the medical
professionals who treated the fatally wounded JFK in Dallas.) And she assures me that as
far as they are concerned, “there are no strings attached” to any financial or other support.
I tell her it is so impressive that our son will grow up to do great things. “He’ll go
to Yale,” I say. Luh corrects me. She tells me it is a different school, one I’ve never heard
of. It is a hyphenated name with Yale as the first part, “Yale-Henning” or something like
that. So that’s it. He’ll be part of an advanced and alien world, one I know nothing about.
#
Charlie: Attention Mark Leach. David Lynch is holding on the red phone. He
wants to lend you his embalmed calf fetus for the baby scenes.
Elmo: In case you’re just joining us here on “Blast” – it’s the End of the World in
“Next Year at Marienbad.”
Charlie: B-movie sci-fi filmmakers have a long heritage of mining the various
veins of the Apocalyptic genre, but few have tunneled as deep –
Elmo: And come up as lacking --
Charlie: -- as Mark Leach. “Next Year at Marienbad” is arguably the worst endof-the-world film ever made. The concept alone is one of the most bizarre in the history
of film – a science fiction-themed tribute to “Last Year at Marienbad,” the 1960s movie
that defined the French New Wave.
Elmo: While it is the on-again/off-again odd darling of the midnight movie and
science fiction convention crowds, “Marienbad” has otherwise generated almost
universal disdain among casual moviegoers as well as serious cinemaphiles, including
those of us here at “Blast.” The onbeam world is rife with vitriolic reviews and caustic 
- 3
academic essays. Many of the comments are so vitriolic and caustic they cannot be
repeated in a public broadcast; however, we have managed to sanitize a few for your
enjoyment. “The incoherent ramblings of an insane mind … I am not sure there is even a
classification for this one … long stretches of surrealism, where we are in this character's
head and not grounded in any recognizable reality...What was that?! Was this person
using drugs or what? … I decided to be generous and give you a one, rather than a zero
… I am so completely confused. I have no idea what's going on, what's real and what the
narrator is imagining … It's terrible.”
Charlie: This movie even offended the protagonist, who recently broke down the
fourth wall to post his own objections in the onbeam world: “Congratulations, Mark
Leach. I read today that ‘Next Year at Marienbad’ has been declared one of the worst
films ever made. And still you smile, that clueless, William Hung smile. Why so pleased?
If you really wanted to create a noteworthy science fiction/fantasy film, then why no
swords or elves? Why no Roman centurions? No, you thought you were too good. Only a
hack would write genre, right? Instead of straight science fiction, you decided to employ
the ‘conventions’ of SF. ‘It's all for EFFECT,’ you explain. And why did you have to
make me so perverse? After all, I am an autobiographical character. What do my
perversions say about you, the filmmaker? ‘You are only an exaggerated version of me,’
you say, ‘exaggerated for comic effect.’ Fine. Here is what I say: I hate this, being a
fictional creation trapped in this abomination of a movie. Experimental? Stream of
consciousness? Metafilm? How about ‘crap’? Now that ‘Next Year at Marienbad’ has
been unleashed on the world, surely the Apocalypse is not far behind.”
Elmo: Indeed, the New York Agenda recently published a story about an
Apocalyptic religion called Marienbadism. Inspired by scenes from the movie, a group of
dedicated Marienbadists are planning to show the film in a special, yet-to-be-built drivein theater in Tibet, an action Mark Leach has stated will bring about the death of the
world and the birth of the new religion.
Charlie: And of course there are still the pending murder charges.
Elmo: Though in all fairness it is hard to see how one person can be blamed for
the destruction of an entire town. But we digress. How did such a film ever come to be
made at all? How did such a filmmaker ever come to be born?
Charlie: Yes, what is going on in the unconscious mind of this offender of
humanity, this embracer of iniquity, this self-diagnosed sufferer of Post-Modern Prophet
Disorder –
Elmo: This prototype of the two-bodied man.
Charlie: Steve Harrison, business editor of the Tarrant County Register and
Leach’s former boss, is here to shed some light on this strange and abhorrent being.
Welcome Steve.
Steve: Thank you. It’s a pleasure to be on “Blast.”
Charlie: Mark has called “Next Year at Marienbad” his Incredible Revelation. Did
he often incorporate so-called prophetic or visionary content into his work as real estate
editor?
Steve: Mark was not real estate editor at the Register.
Elmo: Oh. But I thought –
Steve: He may have put it on his resume, but that doesn’t make it true. Mark was
a reporter, mostly daily assignments on local businesses.
- 4
Elmo: A revealing exaggeration, yet another example of this filmmaker’s allencompassing configuration of ostentation – in imagination if not conduct – and general
air of narcissism, a quality we often see in corporate CEOs as well as the criminally
insane.
Charlie: And in fact, this particular insane criminal –
Elmo: Also the CEO of his own movie.
Charlie: -- yes, we’ll call him Chairman of the Board. He does show an
overarching theme of hoped-for recognition as a superior life form. Or God.
Elmo: Unfortunately, Mark feels he is entitled to superiority without
correspondingly superior achievements. Not good.
Charlie: At the risk of overusing an almost-trite example, I must say that at times
his work reminds me of the schlock director from Texas, Ward E. Timber Jr.
Elmo: Exactly. “Next Year at Marienbad” comes off almost like a hymn to “Let
Me Love You.” To paraphrase the DVD dust jacket comments of the distributor, Wade
Williams -- a sincerely unique, yet utterly flawed tribute from Ward to himself and
everyone else who has ever attempted to construct something clever and significant and
yet botched it wretchedly at every turn.
Charlie: You can almost see the strings and cardboard tombstones!
Elmo: Steve, did you see signs of this misplaced grandiosity and self-deification
in Mark’s work at the Register?
Steve: No, I wouldn’t say that. Mark was quiet, a nose-to-the-grindstone kind of
reporter. I’d characterize him as a journeyman. To be sure, he was a reliable worker. He
met the expectations on his assignments, which were many and varied. I told him he was
our utility infielder. But, uh --
Charlie: Ah yes, a jack of all trades, a master of none.
Steve: I’m afraid he never had much style as a journalist.
Charlie: Or a movie director.
Elmo: And that points to one of the central problems of “Next Year at
Marienbad.” Mark has a nice touch at the micro level. Lots of stunning metaphorical
imagery, especially dealing with the central theme of the eruption of the inner
dreamscape into waking reality. The inexplicable scent of roses, mystic icons weeping
blood, statues of the Saints moving of their own accord – this film is truly a story of the
unconscious invading the waking world. But Mark just doesn’t pull it all together into a
single cohesive narrative.
Charlie: What you just said about the “micro level” – this is absolutely on target.
“Marienbad” is intermittently victorious. But as a whole – well, even Mark’s biggest fans
must admit that his talent shines brightest at the level of the individual scene.
Elmo: Let’s roll the clip.
#
Here’s one way the world ends: I am standing on the backyard patio of my
boyhood home, looking up at the eastern heavens. It is an incredible sight – a white clock
dial is bleeding through the thin cobalt sky. The psychic contrail is suspended in the high,
thin stratosphere, an icy cirrus cloud of time. Somehow I understand that the government
knows all about it, but has been keeping it a secret. Now that the Clock in the Air has
been de-cloaked, there is no denying its existence. Is it an alien spaceship? Perhaps – or it
could be something far more significant: A sign from the Deity. In fact, this may be the 
- 5
divine pocket watch, His timepiece. But time for what? Strange to be here, so out of my
own time. My parents sold this house years ago.
#
Elmo: Pretty.
Charlie: Agreed. We should be fair. “Next Year at Marienbad” is in no way a total
embarrassment. Mark is comfortable behind the camera, even if he doesn’t have much
rapport with it.
Elmo: And the camera clearly loves him. In scenes like this, “Next Year at
Marienbad” certainly reminds one of the great Apocalyptic films of the Hydrocarbon
Age, epics like “The Revolution of Zion,” “The Clockscan Conspiracy” or anything from
“The Abandoned Ones” series.
Charlie: But unlike those drive-in classics, Mark’s movie simply fails to generate
its own animating personality. It never fully succeeds in the terms of the genre.
Elmo: So often during “Marienbad” I reflected upon how much better everything
must have functioned inside Mark’s head.
Steve: Honestly, it was the same way with Mark’s longer, more in-depth news
features.
Charlie: Do tell.
Steve: He struggled to make the jump from brain to computer keyboard. He could
rarely establish the proper tension.
Elmo: Fascinating. How do you mean?
Steve: It’s like I tell my young reporters. Good writing is like a turnbuckle. Not
too tight, not too loose.
Charlie: A turn what?
Steve: A turnbuckle. It’s the little metal adjustor they used to put on wooden
screen doors. Set it too loose and the door would drag. Too tight and the door would
warp.
Charlie: Your anecdote tires me, a languid blood bath waltz of insipid storytelling,
a dog humping the silky femur, poorly sculpted fluff. Yawn.
Elmo: Any Mark Leach examples come to mind?
Steve: I remember one time Mark brought us a story about a rash of new hotels
slated to break ground in Tarrant County. At the time we were underserved in the lodging
industry, so it was big news. But it wasn’t big enough for Mark. No, he said his research
had revealed that there were so many projects in the works that if they were all
constructed we’d be overbuilt.
Elmo: The hotel market would crash.
Steve: So he claimed. That’s the story he wanted to write. Mark was actually
going to have us overbuilt before anybody even broke ground. So sad. I had to explain it
to him. “Mark, you’re too clever by half.”
Charlie: But in fact he was right, yes? They did overbuild.
Steve: That’s hardly the point.
Elmo: You could say it’s the same way with “Next Year at Marienbad.” Mark’s
cleverness is quite engaging, but not engaging enough to sustain narrative tension for two
or more hours on a 50-foot drive-in movie screen.
Charlie: Yes, he almost fails to suck.
#
- 6
#
Welcome to my island.
Pull up a deck chair, help yourself to the tanning oil. But watch out for the brain
crabs – they bite!
May I offer you a festive beverage, perhaps with a paper umbrella? No? I
understand. You are unsure, filled with doubt. You have purchased your ticket, acquired
your soft drink and bucket of popcorn and taken your seat. And yet still you wonder: A
Rapture movie without a Rapture? Is this really for you? Or perhaps you worry it is rather
too much for you. That is to say, too much Mark Leach. (I’m told a little of me goes quite
a ways.)
I hope you’re not here to console me. Such an action is clearly not documented in
the script.
I am happy, snug in my antebellum “bachelor’s pad.” The slave-made bricks are
beginning to crumble, but the walls are still strong and thick. Imagine it: three feet of
solid masonry! Cool in the summer, warm in the winter. Dry, too. The old slate roof is
like a sheet of iron. Nothing gets through. The accommodations are quite luxurious. A
leather sofa, a Sears-O-Pedic king mattress, a fully stocked wine cellar. I even have my
old 1970 Cutlass convertible. You remember it, don't you?
My island. It’s nothing like a prison.
Did you know I dreamed this place? And I don’t mean onbeam, either. I’m talking
about a genuine, naturally-occurring Incredible Revelation. Again you look doubtful,
betrayed by the old, familiar smile. I know what you’re thinking: We studied this
building in Mrs. Wilson’s 7th grade Texas History class, the section on the Civil War.
What can I say? I'm a native Texan; I know my state history. I have filled a mayonnaise
jar with Minieballs pried out of the bricks and unearthed from the beach. But here, such
concrete evidence is inadmissible; this place does not belong to the waking world.
This place, this beach over which I advance once again, sand so profound, so deep
that one perceives no step. This mournful island of another era, encrusted with the
artifacts of another time. This magnificent island, where beaches without end follow upon
beaches, the sand beneath my feet so profound, so deep. The beaches are deserted now,
void of the still, mute, possibly long-dead people of my exile. One perceives no step in
this prison, this perjury.
Do you know I never hear anyone raise his voice in this place? No one.
Conversation flows in a void apparently meaningless or, at any rate, not meant to mean
anything. A phrase hangs in midair, as though frozen, though doubtless taken up again
later. No matter. The same conversations are always repeated by the same prosaic voices.
No, this place does not belong to the waking world. We now put out into deep
water, and let down the nets for a catch.
#
I am part of a travel group on the Texas Gulf Coast, enjoying a boat tour.
The man at the helm – our captain and guide – takes us on a fast ride. We zip past
little islands, some just big enough to stand on, all the while heading toward the biggest
link in the chain: Marienbad.
This main island is dominated by an old brick structure. It has no windows. An
arch-type design element is set into the brickwork. Perhaps it has a flat roof; I cannot say 
- 7
for sure. Later, it will occur to me that the structure reminds me of Fort Sumter, the place
where Confederate troops fired the first shots of the Civil War.
As we near the island, the captain brings us around on the ocean side for a closer
look. On the beach I notice giant, root-like structures. They lie on top of the sand, spread
out like thick vines or cables, their surfaces resembling the rough, fibrous husk of a
coconut. As we pass the island, I see that we are now heading back toward the beach, as
if we have been in a harbor rather than the open sea. I ask our guide about the purpose of
the old building.
“It was a hospital,” he replies. But he does not sound certain, and I am not
convinced he is correct.
“Why is the building on an island, separated from the land?” I ask. Without
waiting for an answer, I immediately volunteer my theory.
“Maybe the building was once on the mainland but the shoreline has changed
over the years, cutting it off from the rest of the world.”
The guide does not respond.
Then our boat is suddenly a car, and our guide is driving us along a road that
parallels the shore.
“Next, we will see the original downtown of Corpus Christi,” he says.
Corpus Christi. The Body of Christ. I am excited because we will see the real
town, the one where the locals go -- not the theological illusion that is maintained for the
pilgrims and tourists.
The road and shoreline depart, and soon we reach the historic central business
district. No high rise hotels or floating seafood restaurant here. This Corpus Christi
appears to be a typical rural Texas town, a few blocks of old buildings crowded together
along an empty street. (You should go check it out before you leave. Very picturesque.)
We approach on a two-lane highway that skirts the edge of the downtown. The
first portion, roughly half the land area, consists of old corrugated metal warehouse
buildings. The cross street is marked by a sort of entry gate made out of the sheet metal,
obviously a new creation intended to play off the old buildings. On the sign there is a
multi-word name, but I do not recall it -- perhaps something that uses the word “market”
or “marketplace.” I realize that some developer has created this marketing concept in
hopes of revitalizing and reusing the old buildings, a not-too-clever rip off of a similar redevelopment concept in Strangers Rest. The sign is colorful yet muted -- a perfect match
for the weathered, oxidized metal.
A block later we reach the retail area. As we pass, I glance back over my shoulder
for a better look. There is some revitalization here, too. The Body of Christ now has three
or four new businesses. One is an ice cream parlor. Another is a restaurant with a front
sign in neon of a cartoon-like pig face, perhaps some Carolina-style barbecue.
#
The Minieballs sit on a high, narrow shelf alongside stacks of gray steel film
canisters and random entries from the sanctioned psychic manifest, nightmare metaphors
of violent purple twilight and unfulfilled judgments and dreams.
Welcome to my broken world.
Here I wander through an obscene territory of winged demons, aerial creatures
bearing branded vials of amputated ghost parts, decaying metallic reek of bankrupt snake
skins, corroded iron shadows of cicada exoskeletons, troubled mirrors reproducing 
- 8
endless spectral relations, hopeless erotic cries echoing across vast plains of repressed
desire. Here in the thin gray light I pour over the sacred texts of communal disaster,
breathe in the double helix of lilac smoke suspended in a porcelain cobalt heaven, view
the golden coronas of uneven and prepared genetic amplifiers, walk uselessly through the
neurotic oily winds, listen to the rasping wings of hysterical tidal birds, feel the sluggish
tropic flames burning through anxious gaunt smirks. (Yes, we’re on the Pathway now!)
A shower of glittering emerald flakes descending unhurried through a tarnished
sea of fluid screams, painfully abrupt stench of damp waste, giant mounds of smoldering
linen mummy casings, a broken stone indicator of the final extinguished horse thief of
Strangers Rest (Gone but not Forgotten, a murder by pittance rage), an image of the
horned creature automobile with a factory-installed means of listening to the Deity. And
that’s just the opening credits.
For the soundtrack, I have commissioned an orchestra of reluctantly castrated
violinists to perform my compositions, disconsolate tunes of homicidal alien
bewilderment, of old coins and fermented blood, of desiccated cats and threadbare
Egyptians, of heretical transformations occurring behind jagged DNA dream codes and
splotched sallow screens of rancid ectoplasm, surging penetration of –
#
Forgive me. I am an odious being.
This sort of thing happens often these days, me getting carried away in the beauty
of chaos, in lurid intervals of narcissistic horror. The FX apparatus disgorges an
enormous radiant fog of visual rumors and nonsense. I digress into the shattered violet
neon dusk of my own atrophied human citizenship and the dazzling garbage heap of our
tragic, dead age.
When I am like this, unpleasant things happen. The walls start bleeding. Nazi
paratroopers land outside the window. Tiny white eggs on the back of my hand hatch into
hungry wolf spiders, which proceed to strip the flesh from my bones. (Director’s note:
We’ll leave this quantity of tainted celluloid on the cutting room floor.)
My favorite prop is the jar of pickled sea monsters. I caught them just a few yards
from here in the roiling surf, my inner sea. Warning: Beware of the riptide. Do not swim
without a prophet on duty. You could be dragged into the Land of the Dead.
How can it be otherwise? Here in my Patmosian exile, I have learned to give
credit to the inner world, the world of fire -- the world behind the masonry walls of the
everyday.
Heraclitus said “it is to Hades that they rage and celebrate their feasts.” Hades –
the world of Death, the conclusion of Practical Man and the ambition of Spiritual Man.
Still, I miss the practical, the everyday. I miss ice cream and barbecue, miss
eating out. I miss so many things. The result is some rather severe restrictions on the
“natural libido flow,” as one of my court-ordered dental psychiatrists put it. So perhaps
this place really is a prison.
And then, of course, I miss my face.
Yes, I noticed you’ve been starring at it. I don't mind; it's understandable. The
right half of my face now resembles a cross between a slab of brown, bloodless beef and
a piece of weathered lumber. Nothing human left. Alien. Most people assume it happened
in the fire. But it’s not a scar. This is the raw, undifferentiated tissue of evolution. This is
the disintegration of culture into chaos. This is the alien within. It’s even in the script.
- 9
#
“Sure, we took a few liberties, skirted the old genetic taboos (aren't we all kin,
really?) -- but it was all for science. Cutting edge work I tell you. A flippered anxiety
disorder here, a web-footed phobia there. And just last week, a break through in the
treatment of mystical psychosis: Cicada wings. Tiny little protrusions anchored by
tendons to the clavicles. Talk about visionary transformation! Eventually, we'll get one
we don't have to euthanize. So sad. They look quite peaceful up there on the lab shelf,
lined up in their labeled pickle jars like sleeping baby dragons.”
#
Pretty.
But for now there is only me, the prototype of the New Man. And quite manly at
that. At one point, The Stranger tells me we will even grow two extra DNA delivery
organs. Have to employ a paring knife to prune away the smallest ones. He claims we
will experience no pain. "Makes the main trunk grow thicker and taller," he says, "just
like a crepe myrtle." Don’t know if that scene will make the final cut. An NC-17 rating is
a definite financial risk.
Have I offended you? I am sorry. It’s just that for the past few minutes I’ve been
having a sepia-toned flashback of adolescent desire. I think back to English Lit, to Albert
Camus: “Oh sun, beaches, and the islands in the path of the trade winds, youth whose
memory drives one to despair!”
You are still the same, as though I left you only yesterday. What has become of
you all this time? You’re still the same. But you hardly seem to remember. How can that
be? After all, our high school reunion was only last year. Have I changed so much, then?
Or are you pretending not to recognize me? A year already, perhaps more.
I remember you, of course. As soon as the launch arrived and I saw you step out
onto the beach, time seemed to reverse itself . The Clock in the Air rolled back to before
the dissolution, before the World Catastrophe. We had retreated across the years and
returned to high school, sprawled across the cool, black vinyl in the back of the Cutlass.
Checking out my crepe myrtle.
You, at least, are still the same. You have still the same dreamy, Last-Year-AtMarienbad eyes, the same smile, the same sudden laugh, the same brusque arm
movement…the same way of resting your hand on your shoulder and you still use the
same perfume.
But perhaps that sort of Robbe-Grillet character arc is no longer an option. We’re
all grown up now, you say, responsible citizens. This is the bittersweet denouement,
complete with the swelling metallic strains of the castrated violinists. The Hollywood
critics will roll their eyes at this over-the-top romance, but I find that real people still like
that sort of thing. We all want the boy to get the girl.
As for your offer of help in my hour of need – what’s that? Well, I’m sorry, but it
is clearly documented in my script. You are to make the offer, and I am to experience a
warm, grateful sensation of humanity. Here’s my line: “I am touched. I can’t think of any
lawyer – or any person, really – I’d rather have defend me in the Hague.” And then I shall
enthusiastically penetrate your membranes with my DNA delivery organs. (Ha ha, little
joke.) Still, we may need a script doctor for this part. It is critical to the plot that I already
stand condemned. The trial is mere theater.
- 10
You object to a scripted response, a premeditated life? I understand. However, I
didn’t make it up. This is the contemporary quandary that renders genuine experience
unfeasible for all. I distinctly remember encountering this idea in a book somewhere
(possibly Paul Elie’s “The Life You Save May Be Your Own”). To paraphrase:
experience is forever recycled, standardized, a story allegorically scripted and filmed for
mass consumption. We are intensely self-conscious beings fated to an increasingly
intensified rift from our own selves. Even the occasional, genuinely honest experience is
ruined by this eternal personal awareness. The contemporary being is destined to a
simulation of existence. The personality cannot be itself . The contemporary being cannot
be acquainted with the earth or with The Deity.
That is why The Stranger makes movies. He wants to make obvious he lives.
#
What’s that? Ah yes, you wish to know about the Armageddon Drive-In Theatre.
I prefer to save the climax for last, but I certainly understand that many people
like to know up front how a movie will end. The important thing to realize about the
events at the old drive-in – in real life it was called the Hi-way 114 Drive-In – is that they
did not come from my nocturnal visions. Rather, The Stranger based this part of the script
on an anonymous posting found on an Exogrid message board dedicated to onbeam
creations about the conclusion of time:
“The Christian congregations of my community had come together to take us all
to a drive-in movie theater. When we got there they split us up into two groups: The ones
who were going with God and the ones who were staying on Earth. And of course I was
in the group that was staying. I saw people there who I have known for a long time, and
some were worried and some were not. I was praying the whole time for forgiveness. I
could not see why I was not going. I was mad that they had divided us into groups, as if
they knew who God was taking. When they had brought us to this place it was night, and
I prayed until morning. At sunrise I went inside the snack bar where they had gathered
everyone who was going, and I saw empty candy wrappers and popcorn buckets and the
pillows and sleeping bags on the floor where some had been sleeping. But there were no
bodies, only imprints on the pillows where they had been laying their heads. I was so
angry because I did not understand. Some people who had been left behind were saying
how we were going to have to face the fact that we would not be spending the rest of
eternity with God, but burning in Hell. I knew that I did not want to suffer in everlasting
torment, and I unplugged. I was out of breath, and I was trembling slightly. I have never
had an onbeam experience so real, and this was by far the worst of my recent creations
about the conclusion of time. It has scared me so bad, and I wish that everyone who is not
saved or unsure about their faith would have this experience also. I wonder why I am
having them. I am unsure if I want them again or not.”
Despite the unfortunate anxiety experienced by the anonymous dream surfer, this
scene is incredibly funny. The Stranger decides that all of the extras will be church folk,
but there’s a catch: only the Methodists are going. Can you believe it? Methodists don’t
even believe in the Rapture.
Meanwhile, the others Christians of Strangers Rest do not like playing the role of
“The Abandoned Ones,” those who are staying and must spend the rest of eternity
burning in Hell. This casting against type is particularly offensive to the local chapter of
the Keepers of the Deity, the former congregation of the Strangers Rest Baptist Church 
- 11
who jettisoned the old, dead, discredited name and now worship in the combination gas
station/Exogrid church out on the interstate.
When they complain of this cinematic heresy, the assistant director serves up the
introductory disclaimer: “It is the stated position of the Keepers of the Deity that His
safeguards would prevent the occurrence of such blasphemous events as are depicted in
this film. Furthermore, it should be noted that none of the characters portrayed in this
film are meant to represent any waking world congregations living or dead.”
The Keepers of the Deity still grumble, but I see from the looks in their eyes that
they are appeased. Their dogma has been validated in the ideal medium for our times:
film.
#
This is an objectionable era.
Dark nations and rulers are universally triumphant. Evil thrives in elevated
locations.
Nevertheless, there is a more obvious and nearby danger. For I argue that the End
of the World is already here. This end is not a destruction of stone and wood or flesh and
blood. Rather, this is the end of a terminal legend, the legend of the conquering
champion, of the rationalist’s Creature of Merit.
I know all about it because I dreamt it, because I dream it still. Here is the onesentence film treatment: Christ-haunted journalist turns to 1950s B-movie sci-fi to report
the biggest story of his life – how he prophesied the End of the World.
#
Corpus Christi was once home to about a half dozen drive-in theaters. The Gulf,
the Surf, the Twin Palms – they’re all gone now, lost to yesterday’s sun and sand and
salty breeze, edited away with the rest of the dead Hydrocarbon Age. I fear the same
thing will happen to my movie. Even with proper disclaimers, the distributor may find
my theology unacceptable. He may insist upon the deletion of heretical scenes. My vision
under siege.
We need a Director’s Cut, an undiluted version of me, the protagonist of my own
true story. The movie will be by its very nature numinous. It will conclude with me
consuming myself, a hand sandwich and a glass of fermented corpuscles, a multimedia
Eucharist.
Mmmm, that’s good Messiah.
You are offended? Sorry, but the best movie directors have all been doubters.
If you accept the role of movie making muse, you can start by manipulating the
footage in the can labeled “Notes For A B-Movie About The End of the World.” You
like? The name is a variation on the subtitle of one of my all-time favorite movies, “Let
Me Love You: Confessions of a Bad God on a Planet near the Conclusion of Time.”
This is key footage for “Next Year at Marienbad,” the movie that will bring about
the End of the World – and the beginning of the New Religion.
A group of dedicated Marienbadists have already begun preparations for the
world premier, which will be conducted at a specially constructed drive-in movie theater
located somewhere in the Himalayas. Cylindrical clock chimes hanging from clouds will
convene the moviegoers from around the planet. I will be stationed behind the camera,
encircled by a multitude of grips and gaffers, vocalists and primal goddesses. Uniformed
orators narrating manuscripts in marches and spectacles will fashion their share of the 
- 12
exploits along with the primal goddesses, whose dance routines will incorporate eye
signals and stroking of the fingertips in combination with aromas of enjoyable fragrances
as well as pungent, smoldering flame. Columns of anger will dot the landscape, and fire
will explode in streams of luminosity and expanses of conflagration. This will continue
for seven days. When the movie is finally over and final credits roll, the world will at last
come to an end. And then there will be a new Deity in the heavens.
But I’m getting ahead of myself.
“Let Me Love You” is a great epic film. It is actually based on an essay by
Walker Percy, who also wrote a book called “The Moviegoer” and a later one called
“Lancelot,” which is about the making of a movie in an old Louisiana plantation
somewhere near the Land of the Dead. And then there is the confessional device – that is,
the Me talking to the You. See, I did not write you into the script merely for the purpose
of penetrating your membranes. Rather, you are present to hear my confession. You are
my priest. It is a technique Percy borrowed from Camus’ “The Fall.”
This is a tricky business, combining “Last Year at Marienbad” with “The Fall.”
I’m told that Alain Robbe-Grillet and Camus did not get along. Robbe-Grillet criticized
Camus for having a “dubious relationship” with the world, one that relied on the power of
metaphors. He said “all my work is precisely engaged in the attempt to bring its own
structures to light." I like that, though it is not true for me. All my work is precisely
engaged in the attempt to penetrate your membranes.
Even though I have acknowledged the source of the stolen product – the recycled,
premeditated experience -- there might still be a copyright issue. You could work on that,
too. Remember, you have been cast in the role of the idealistic lawyer.
#
So why a sequel to “Last Year at Marienbad”? Why did I select this enigmatic
creation from the ‘60s as the template for my end-of-time film?
Certainly I could have chosen to pattern my work on any number of movies I
admire. “Let Us Love You” is clearly an end-times film worthy of imitation. “The
Revolution of Zion” is another obvious choice.
I could tell you I picked “Last Year at Marienbad” because of a scholarly paper
by Darragh O'Donoghue, who described it as “post-apocalyptic, almost science fiction.”
I rather like that. Or I could tell you I picked it because I recognize and honor the genius
of this film and its symmetrical perfection. But those would be un-truths.
The real story is I wish to compel you to play the role of “A,” clad in 1961 Chanel
and feathers. At its heart, “Last Year at Marienbad” is a love story. Robbe-Grillet had it
right: Boy gets girl. That is the conclusion I yearn for in my own art and life. The boy
should always get the girl, even when the world comes to an end. Or especially then.
That is the role I have created for you, my darling muse, my love. Your destiny.
Listen – you can almost hear the clock chimes, convening the moviegoers from around
the planet. You’re needed on the set; I must take my place behind the camera. In seven
days the world will come to an end, and we must be ready.
I must be ready.
#
What’s that? Yes, I still dream of my wife and children and our lives together in
Strangers Rest. I still dream of the night of the apocalypse, the rain of fire. I still see the
Lancelot-style headlines:
- 13
STRANGERS REST BURNS. BODIES OF TOWNFOLK CHARRED
BEYOND RECOGNITION; REPORTER CHARGED.
The fire and the brimstone and the death, the deaths of so many – but I can’t think
about that right now. Besides, it all seems so distant, so unreal.
Forget “Last Year at Marienbad.” I really wish I could do “The Abandoned Ones”
thing. Big plots, familiar characters – it’s a huge box office/publishing success thanks to
millions of Keepers of the Deity. After all, the Rapture is their sacred story. Did you
know there’s even a special version for kids? Here’s a jacket blurb:
#
WICKED TIMES AT ANTICHRIST HIGH
School's back in session, and wickedness is in the set of courses. Jewell, Rikki,
Lynn and Rusty -- The Young Affliction Corps, a crack team of the Deity’s abandoned
orphans -- return from spring break to find their school has just been renamed Zuftaza
Humanisto High after the UN's new secretary-general, whom their scripture-guru and
Bible mentor, Brouhaha Shedes, declares is the Antichrist. The polished, menacing
Humanisto has already begun planning a one-earth government, religion and coinage, so
the Young Affliction Corps must get innovative. They start “The Subversive Tribe,” a
secret school television station that reports the true story of the Rapture and Humanisto's
wicked plans for earth domination. The Young Affliction Corps all pitch in to make their
pirate TV station happen, despite pressure from Humanisto’s faculty and even a strange,
possibly demonic collapse of the station’s secret broadcasting antennae. Rikki is arrested
as public enemy number one, wanted for her part in producing “The Subversive Tribe.”
Refusing to turn in her pals, Rikki gets inserted into the wicked place— the U.N.’s
infamous Normpart Internment Camp in Arizona. But she makes it out because she's
been adopted by a foster family... none other than the Bible mentor himself, Brouhaha
Shedes! And the Young Affliction Corps, still committed to spreading the truth about the
Rapture and the rise of Humanisto as the Antichrist, adds its newest member, Chatty, a
young Jewish televangelist. “Wicked Times at Antichrist High” is the fifth installment of
“The Abandoned Kids,” the children’s version of Giles de Jeer and Ike Havoc's Rapture
hit, “The Abandoned Ones.”
#
A well done tale. And yet, why does their sacred story seem so insubstantial – all
the deaths and losses and the empty clothes and the unpiloted jetliners and the United
Nations’ One World Government and empty candy wrappers and popcorn buckets and
humbled, penitent souls nevertheless tossed into the Lagoon of Flames – why does it
seem so unreal next to a few teenage libidinal moments on the vinyl back seat of a 1970
Cutlass convertible?
That’s right. This movie can be about you, too. I recognize the possibilities
already. In this concept you have your own death and loss to deal with, your own
nightmares. We could write a touching back story, ideally the death of someone close.
There could be a kindly old man and a spunky dog, too. No? Well then, perhaps it is not a
literal death, but a loss just the same. We can use a blue screen in post-production to
superimpose an FX-created image of the pain into your eyes. I envision sadness, a world
weariness – something that I could recognize in myself but never knew in you. Here’s my
line: “It didn’t occur to me that you might have your own pain to deal with, your own
demons to battle. Your own apocalypse. So that’s it. We’re both prisoners.”
- 14
Pretty, huh?
And now you smile. I never could get the knack of you. So how about a little spin
around the island in the old Cutlass convertible? We could rough out the film treatment
while screen testing the natural libidinal flow on the black vinyl, a sort of stand in for the
Hollywood casting couch.
Still you are smiling. Smiling but speechless. Ah, and now I see why. Here comes
the boat. You must leave. Will you come again tomorrow?
- 15
Welcome again. Have a drink. You still decline?
You do not recognize me. And I don’t mean just from high school, either. Didn't
we meet last year, when your husband was away? I believe we attended one of the
theater-in-the-park productions of Ibsen’s “Rosmersholm.” No? Well, perhaps it was
somewhere else. Karlstadt or Baden-Salsa. Or even here upon these very sands, on the
beaches of Marienbad. Didn't you say you would leave your husband and we would run
away together? It was only last year. I remember it distinctly. You were wearing 1961
Chanel and feathers. Have I changed so much, then? Or are you pretending not to
recognize me? A year already, perhaps more.
You, at least, are still the same. I think of Robbe-Grillet: “The same dreamy eyes,
the same smile, the same sudden laugh, the same brusque arm movement, the same way
of resting your hand on your shoulder. You still use the same perfume.”
#
I have an admission. I lied to you yesterday. About the island of the Body of
Christ, I mean. It was not so much a lie as an omission. I did not tell the rest of the dream.
I feared what you might think of me. After all, my evolutionary transfiguration has been
the subject of much public speculation. Certainly kept the supermarket tabloids buzzing
for a while. (I should never have told anyone about those extra DNA delivery organs.)
I didn't want you to think they might be right, that I am an alien, a freak. But I
realize now that was silly. After all, that’s exactly what I am. Always have been. Who
knows it better than you?
#
A short time after passing downtown Corpus Christi, we stop at an ice cream
parlor. Once inside, I tell everyone that I am handling the food purchase. Apparently, this
is by design and was decided in advance as part of our trip arrangements.
“‘But you must pay me,” I add.
I am standing next to a seated man from our group, and he has a complaint.
“‘You owe me money from a previous purchase,” he says, “but I’ll still give you
some money.”
He holds out a $5 bill. I decline to accept it.
“‘Since I owe you, you should keep your money. You are taken care of.”
Then a man walks up behind me and begins to talk to this seated man. I do not
look, but only listen. They begin to negotiate a theological transaction.
I understand the item for sale is mysticism. They are very blatant, discussing
amounts and prices. It is a friendly negotiation, not at all part of a seamy, dangerous
theological underground. I realize they are friendly because they see themselves as part of
the same club. As I listen, it occurs to me that we are visiting a foreign place where this is
not illegal. Or at least it is tolerated.
The transaction is completed, and the seated man begins to consume his purchase.
I am handed a paper sack that is printed up in a colorful fashion. In this strange land, it is
clearly understood by anyone who sees it to be a bag that is used for the sale of heretical
theologies. The sack has a sort of stick glued to the outside. The stick is like a lighter; it is
attached to the bag with a spot of glue so that the ends are unattached. One end has been
lit, glowing orange with a curl of smoke rising toward the ceiling. I do not like it that I
am holding this smoking, theological bag. It is like a billboard. Anyone who sees it will 
- 16
know I am in possession of heretical theology. I decide it would be far less noticeable for
me to stash the mysticism in my pants pocket and throw away the all-too-obvious bag.
Meanwhile, the woman who is managing the place is disturbed by the sale. She
doesn’t want that sort of activity going on in her place, giving it a bad name.
“‘Maybe I should call the police,” she says.
But I am not afraid of being arrested. I am an outstanding, responsible citizen, and
the police will find I have no tickets or warrants or records of any infractions. Again,
heretical theologies are obviously not a crime here. So although the circumstances make
me look suspicious, I face no real legal dangers here in the Body of Christ.
I decide to ditch the bag in the restroom. I approach the men’s room door, but I
see that the woman manager has entered ahead of me. Could it be a unisex restroom? Or
does she feel free to use any restroom just because she works here? Then I notice the
words on the door. It really is the women’s room, but the “W” and ”O” are missing. I can
only see the faint outlines of the letters. So I look a bit further and find the real men’s
room, a vast space that reminds me of the dressing rooms in the old Sanger-Harris at Red
Bird Mall, where the impoverished Oak Cliff kids conveniently relieved themselves on
the carpet.
#
Enigmatic signage. At least I got my gender properly worked out by the end. That
will make the movie a lot more bankable. Although correlated with the deities, the
hermaphroditic archetype is a particularly tough one to sell at the box office. Due to such
financial considerations, a lot of it inevitably ends up on the cutting room floor. And even
then, the reviews will not be kind:
INTENSELY REVOLTING … THE MOST TOTALLY EMPTY MOVIE I
HAVE EVER VIEWED FROM THE TIME WHEN I FIRST STARTED VIEWING.
What’s that? Why yes, I am all about the movies. I’ve given up on journalism.
The newspaper world is dead. It no longer functions.
When I was young, journalism was my calling. It was all about The Truth. Now it
is all about The Lie. I admit that I do not yet possess even the basic tools of the
cinematographer. But I can wait. The appearance of The Stranger is proof that one day I
will be documenting the numinous experiences of myself and the world.
The movie. The Stranger is obsessed with it. Turns out that in my old age, I will
live in a glass beach house in Southern California and take up movie making. I shall live
with the sun and sand and the salt spray in my cinematic vision. Indecipherable religious
imagery, bleeding childhood angst, mythological expectations.
“I cannot fully explain my life,” he tells me. “It is not always about life. My life
no longer functions on that level. To be sure, one half is still life. But the other half is
raw, undifferentiated tissue. Alien. That's why I want to make the movie. For years, I
have experienced my life as a sort of dream movie. I have always wished to be about the
Odyssey, the journey. I am the 2001 Space Odyssey astronaut, traveling in the divine sky
clock, recast as cosmic child. The Deity is sending me back to Egypt, I think. To save us.
Imagine this dream movie: I am Jonah, the man in the fish. We all know that it is a
specially prepared fish (i.e., a visual rumor of the Son of the Deity). So I am swallowed
up in Him. The wound is inscrutable. I offer my own little interpretation: The Deity
showed Jonah what it is to be reborn as the cosmic child. I think I would like that role,
suffering in the belly of the fish. We could do it up with soulless cool special effects, 
- 17
visual rumors of the forgotten, abandoned church with the flooded basement and the old
bearded preacher withdrawn from employment in advance of death. And the tag line: Am
I dying?
“Books, movies, my own day. I simultaneously accept that the basement is
flooded and the forgotten, abandoned church is me. (In the upcoming age, the true
Christian will be the priest of his own church. Or he will not be a Christian at all.) All is
as it should be, I tell myself, Christ-haunted about my life as the rest slumber in their
beds, oblivious to the apocalypse swirling around them. Picture a scene with me starring
up at the sky, looking for signs and portents, the visual rumors. Real F/X opportunities
here, all labeled with harsh warnings in German creole. You have to be careful quoting
them. Then, a bystander tells me he is disappointed to learn that the safest way to
communicate with The Deity is above the concrete and rational, over the viral DNA
dream phone. ‘We are more than the real,’ I tell him. ‘We have to be. The ongoing value
of all this is as it should be.’ That's good dialogue, good writing.”
Pretty.
#
Would you be astonished if I informed you that I might be experiencing romantic
affection again? It’s true. So let us leave this place together. Let us leave behind these
sculptured thresholds, lines of doors, colonnades, oblique hallways leading to deserted
meeting rooms paneled in the baroque embellishments of an earlier time. Mute rooms,
where footsteps are lost in sculpted berber so profound, so deep that one perceives no
step, as if the ear itself were impossibly remote – distant and remote from this numb,
barren décor, far from this elaborate frieze beneath the cornice with its branches and
garlands like dead leaves, as if the floor were still sand and gravel, or flagstones over
which I advance one again To find you. Between richly paneled walls, Venetian plaster,
gold-leafed frames, paintings, framed prints amidst which I advance, among which I find
myself already waiting for you. Very far from this beach where I stand now…before you,
waiting again for one who will not come again, who will no longer keep us apart…tear
you from me.
After all that and still you say no? How can that be so wrong? I cannot read you at
all. You face is masklike, inscrutable. Forever walls, hallways, forever doors. And on the
other side, yet more walls. Before reaching you, rejoining you.
Still no? Well then, I shall pursue another love.
The new object of my desire is the woman next door. In Lancelot’s case, she was
the patient in the next room. In my case, she is on the neighboring island. I’ve not
observed her in the waking world. But in a dream last night, I believe I may have
compelled her to commit unnatural acts upon my DNA delivery organ. Some might say
that is not a good start to a meaningful relationship. But as this debasement took place
near the Land of the Dead, I believe the physical moral code is suspended in favor of
communicating a greater metaphorical truth. Is that not the beauty of true romantic
affection and the visionary religious experience? Years ago, traveling with you across the
vinyl back seat of the Cutlass convertible, membrane to membrane, I could say to you “I
am fond of this physical response stimuli, aren’t you?” And you could reply “oh God,
bring forth the warm globs of ectoplasm.” Or something to that effect.
I believe that with the woman on the neighboring island it will be identical. Last
night, our membranes were brought into proximity. Genetic material may have been 
- 18
transmitted. At the very least I experienced an extremely positive response stimuli. She
may have even responded in kind. At least she did not protest.
Clearly, this membrane-to-membrane encounter might have been without
meaning. A one-dream stand, so to speak. But conversely, it may represent an authentic
first contact. I awoke to find my membranes still surging, my DNA singing. It was as if I
was experiencing romantic affection again for the first time.
But I’m getting ahead of myself. I should start at the beginning – the beginning of
the end of time.
This one is a 1950s B-movie sci-fi concept, too. But don’t get too attached to it,
because it’s just an introduction. I never got past the opening section, which is somewhat
sad but not surprising. They say every newspaper reporter has a movie script somewhere
inside. And that’s where most of them should stay.
#
One summer afternoon I accidentally decapitate a giant cicada.
It is one of a pair – still young, about the size of a squirrel – that has crawled up
from the drainage ditch at the back of our lot, looking for a place to shed its exoskeleton.
Interrupted in the weed-choked San Augustine, the ancient, mythic couple separate. One
escapes through the uncut grass and splashes into the waters beyond. The other buzzes at
the mower’s right front wheel and disappears under the cutting deck. The engine stalls as
the whirling steel blade does its work, shooting the meaty pupae across the cracked patio
slab to the feet of Jack Bryson.
Jack nudges the headless form with the tip of his boot. The bug does not move.
He continues to nurse a watery margarita, attempting to conjure a non-existent coolness
from the unforgiving shade the westering sun makes through the high, jagged limbs of
the post oak next door.
“It’s too hot to mow,” Jack says. “Let’s go inside.”
In the throes of an unbroken string of triple-digit days, shade has long ago ceased
to provide any real relief. I stare across a neighboring field, a lumbering combine kicking
up a gritty mushroom cloud of top soil, a dreamy moment in the shimmering heat waves.
I am momentarily cast adrift, irredeemably lost in the scorching heat and torments of the
everyday.
I say “the backyard’s gone nuclear” or something equally metaphorical. I’m not
quite sure.
Jack isn’t interested in metaphors. For him, August in Texas is strictly what it is:
hot. He has long ago determined the best way to beat the heat is with a cool, alcoholic
drink and an afternoon pornographic movie -- certainly not jumping out of the path of
projectile insects.
“Great time to mow the lawn,” he observes. “Don’t tell me you wasted one of
your precious vacation days on this.”
“Comp time. The Keller City Council met in executive session till 12:30 last
night. So how do you take this every day?”
“Well, I don’t try to mow at the hottest time of the day, like some newspaper
reporter who spends his life in the air conditioning.” Then Jack again nudges the remains
of the insect. “And I never mow over giant bugs.”
The cidaca is only the latest in a series of poisonous insects, potentially-rabid
small mammals, blood-sucking reptiles and other creatures that have recently grown to 
- 19
nightmarish proportions. (The scientists blame it on environmental contaminates; the
Keepers of the Deity insist it is a sign of the conclusion of time.) These B-movie
monsters are brave, too, refusing to observe the faded neon pink surveyor’s flags as the
limits of their habitat.
Allison picked out our home site when the subdivision was still mostly vacant
lots. I had initially balked at the $5,000 premium for a ``canal’’ lot, as the real estate
agent called it. After all, it really was just a drainage ditch, half-filled with silt and
cattails. But that was in the era when I still easily succumbed to the idea of marital bliss,
the novelty of love. Besides, the agent assured us the canal would be cleaned out as soon
as the developer started the second phase. That was before Wichita Falls Guarantee &
Credit, the sanctuary that financed the project, was declared insolvent. In their final
report, sanctuary regulators concluded that the institution was “creatively overstimulated.
And as with much of the industry today, this overstimulation is the source of the financial
troubles.” Clearly the second phase of the neighborhood will be a long time coming.
I try to restart the mower, but it has flooded out. A few pulls on the starter rope
and I am out of breath, wiping sweat from my face with the grayed sleeve of my
“Strangers Rest 5K Run” T-shirt.
“Do you know what I’ve just heard? At this time last year it was so cold that the
lakes froze. That’s surely wrong.”
“Too hot, I’m telling you,” Jack repeats. “Why do you think Mexicans take those
siestas?”
“Your Mexicans don’t.”
“Oh yeah? On my last spec, I caught one trying to sheet rock an empty beer bottle
into one of the walls.”
“You don’t pay them enough. You don’t love them.”
“You liberal journalists are going to ruin this country. Liberals and queers. Do
you know how much I pay for workmen’s comp?”
“Do you know what I heard from one of the old timers? One summer it was so
cold here that all the water froze. The creeks, the ponds, everything.”
“That’s impossible.”
“Let’s have a beer.”
“You go ahead, it’ll replenish your depleted electrolytes. Since I am the general
contractor, I’ll stick with tequila.”
#
How do you like it so far? I call it "Lesbian Rest Stop." No, this concept does not
include a rest stop. Or lesbians. Well, maybe a few. You can’t go wrong at the box office
with a few gratuitous lesbians.
The title was suggested by Jack. Of course, you knew he’d have to be mixed up in
all of this. He also advised that the ads include the phrases "this movie will save your
marriage" and "recommended by Oprah." When I proposed the more serious title of
“Strangers Rest” he shook his head. "Do you want it to have a clever title or do you want
it to sell?"
Jack Bryson is a product of the defunct Hydrocarbon Age. In recent years, he was
one of the few well adjusted people I knew who were not under the care of a dental
psychiatrist.
But now let us speak of incredible revelations. Let us speak of the Cicadians.
- 20
Yes, I am admittedly enraptured with my favorite movie, “Let Me Love You.”
Why do I like it? For starters, it was made in Texas. One of the settings is Waco, which is
where I was born and some of my family still lives. Also, there is the protagonist, Clark
Caring. He is a sort of minor deity. And like him, I am periodically subject to many godlike delusions. So the real-life parallels are considerable.
I am so enraptured with this epic film that I wish for you to secure the copyright. I
feel it is essential to employ key scenes from this great work of the Hydrocarbon Age and
cult classic of the drive-in movie world. Consider the opening scene.
#
Blessings – and apologies.
It has been 2,000 years since my last heavenly manifestation, my beloved
creations. Time gets away from you, right? I make no excuses for this lengthy delay. The
blame belongs solely to me. Shame, humiliation, self-criticism – I accept it all. You won’t
find me trying to pass the buck. No way. I’m all about honesty. That’s just the kind of
God I am.
What’s that? Why yes, you are right. It is hard to be me, your creator and
sustainer, the all-knowing sentient being who keeps the wheels of the universe turning.
And yet I do. Picture me rollin’! Ah yes, sometimes being the ultimate power in the
universe is almost more than I can bear.
So yeah, it’s been a while since you last saw my giant disembodied head floating
benevolently above you in the vast, pink sky of Planet Luh. Sorry to keep you waiting.
It is hard to be me. As far back as I can recall I’ve been misunderstood,
particularly by those I care about most. It seems we are always hurt by the ones we love,
eh? And yet, despite the unfortunate events of 20 centuries ago, isn’t it true my wrath has
been generally exercised in your favor? Have I not done great things – marvelously
incredible things – precisely for you, my beloved creations? Who showed you how to
pound your plowshares into swords? Who caused your enemies to fall in battle, allowing
you to sweep in and enslave their soldier drones, cart away their gold and smash in the
heads of their larva until green goo oozed from their twitching, quivering mandibles?
Who did it? That’s right – me. Your God. So do I not deserve your exultation and
veneration? Am I not entitled to your admiration, you who I have brought into existence
as citizens of the universe?
And still, you hurl the “terrible calamity” into my face. You still hold against me
this one, comparatively minor transgression. “Oh, the terror!” you wail over the burned
out shells of your hives and the graves of your larva. Yes, yes, fine. We have fully
established the terror of it.
I do not deny this troubled episode in the life of Planet Luh – and yet, did it truly
rise to the level of a terrible calamity?
Let’s be fair. Did I not cause the nuclear rain to quickly wash the fire and
brimstone from the sky? Did I not employ the radioactive isotopes to create a genetic
transmutation allowing you to quickly and (somewhat) painlessly shed your burned
exoskeletons? And did I not cause new exoskeletons to grow again, albeit in a somewhat
mutated form, at a greatly accelerated rate?
You are beings characterized by chatter. I am a being characterized by action. An
authentic Native American saying comes to mind: Talk too much do too few. So where
would you be without me, you talkers, you beings of chatter? Where would you be 
- 21
without a being of action? That’s right. You’d be talking too much, doing too few. You’d
be nowhere.
So come on, folks, enough already with the terrible calamity. Let me do my God
thing. Let me love you! Can’t you just do that one little thing? Get out of the way and let
me love you, you ungrateful six-legged bastards, you soul-sucking parasites, you –
Forgive me. This sort of thing happens to me a lot. Back in the day, four billion
years ago, I would often find myself getting carried away in the beauty of chaos, in lurid
intervals of narcissistic horror. I would digress into the shattered violet neon dusk of my
own atrophied human citizenship and the dazzling garbage heap of my tragic, dead age.
Even now, when I am like this, unpleasant things happen. The walls start
bleeding. Nazi paratroopers land outside the window. Tiny white eggs on the back of my
hand hatch into hungry wolf spiders, stripping the flesh from my bones.
I admit it. I am a bad God. What’s that? Well, there’s no reason for you to agree
so quickly.
OK, so let’s get on with it. Since my last manifestation, some of your heretics and
artists have been asking unpleasant questions about me. Some of you have been inquiring
into my nature.
“Who is this Clark Caring?”
“Where does he come from?”
“Why does he do such terrible things to his creations?”
“When will he leave?”
When will I leave? Well, that’s why I am here before you today. This is it, the time
your heretics and artists have been waiting for these past 20 centuries.
This is the end of the world.
You weren’t expecting that, were you? But that’s the way it is with me, your God.
I am the God of Surprises. Only I know the day and hour of the divine Apocalypse. And
the day and hour is almost here.
I’d like to share with you a recent essay I read on Caringism. Don’t worry. I’m
not preparing to hurl any lightning bolts or anything. I actually found it quite enjoyable.
Not a bad bit of writing. Nothing like you’d have seen back in the day from a truth
doctor, of course, but a worthwhile journeyman effort nonetheless. Your creator and
sustainer was proud. Then I came to the conclusion:
“Why does Clark Caring let bad things happen to good people? Perhaps we have
the answer in our sacred texts. A paraphrased quote from this god might read something
like this: ‘I do what I do because I am a mysterious and awesome being.’”
Let me tell you something, you artists and heretics: I HATE THAT! A mysterious
and awesome being? You make it sound as if I am some sort of irrational creature, some
sort of anti-deity, a monster of the id, the Fiend of the Unconscious. Let me tell you, my
beloved creations, I am a God of Love! I would not have to tell you that if only you would
stop with your incessant questioning and let me get on with being me. Let me get on with
loving you. Let me love you!
And enough with the lowercase “g” already. I am not “this god,” but rather
“your God” – that’s God with an uppercase “G,” goddamnit. You’re treading on some
mighty thin ice, my beloved creations. Have you already forgotten the terrible calamity of
two centuries ago? Thin ice, folks. Mighty thin. Picture me rollin’ – over your thorax.
#
- 22
That’s good 1950s B-movie sci-fi! You like? I see. Well, it’ll grow on you.
Meanwhile, back to Jack Bryson.
#
Opening the refrigerator. I am watched by a crayon cowboy affixed to the
polished steel door. Held tight by the mysterious, magical forces of a heart-shaped
magnet, the picture is a rendering of the Leach family done by Shawn, the eldest of our
two sons. We are all rendered in classic stick figure style, just as any pre-schooler might
draw. He's portrayed me with cowboy boots and hat, the long, tall Texan, six guns
blazing -- one riot, one Ranger -- riding off into a Panavision sunset. “I’m his hero!” I
think. But what is this? My paternal pride is quickly short-circuited by a rather unnerving
detail: I have been drawn without arms.
I shut the designer refrigerator door with my elbow, slamming it a bit too hard,
rattling jars of mustard and relish and unwanted memories. I hear the hollow slam of the
tailgate of Allison’s Volvo station wagon, its rear bumper disappearing around the curve
at the end of the street; her fist slamming on the pantry door while I knell in the tiny
closet, cleaning up a broken bottle of juice; a phone slamming in its receiver, seemingly
forever.
The rattled condiments rouse Missy, still locked in the laundry room. She whines
in a familiar, annoying way, sort of a laughing monkey. I take advantage of her beloved
owner’s absence by kicking the door. Jack laughs.
“How long you going to keep her in there?”
“Until she learns to respect me.”
“So – you’re free at last.”
``They ought to be landing about now. No doubt you sensed a disturbance in the
heavens.”
``Two whole weeks.”
“Long enough to get caught up on my sleep.”
“Sleep? Forget that. We’re going to celebrate.’’
“Well -- ”
“Come on, I’m not letting you stay home, not tonight anyway. You’ll just end up
sitting around in your underwear, watching re-runs of Star Trek.”
“Only the original series. It was some of Shatner’s best work.”
Jack’s glance falls on the notebook I’ve left on the counter. Before I can grab it
away, he has it in his hands, reading the title I’ve printed on the cover with perhaps a bit
too much self importance.
“The ‘Voice of God: A Memoir of Dreams.’ Ah, a little neuro porn? Naughty,
naughty.”
“No, it’s just to get ideas for stories.”
“Sleep my ass. I know you, man. You’re planning to go onbeam, get down on
some more dreamy pervert action. Maybe one of your elementary school teachers?”
“You’re taking that one totally out of context. I should never have let you read it.”
“Who else would read it but me? Always walls, always footsteps – what’s that
crazy movie again?”
“What movie?”
“The one with the subtitles. Always walls, always footsteps. Mute, deserted –
what was that crap?”
- 23
“Marienbad.”
“Yeah, that’s it. Subtitles. The French are full of it. Why don’t they learn English?
I think what you are really needing is the mystic revelation trip. You should get Jazzed.”
I groan. “Summon is dead.”
“I’m telling you, you need to buy some stock. Closed yesterday at $32 a share.”
“But you paid $75! It’s never coming back.”
“You’re crazy. Here, read this.”
Jack reaches into his back pocket. He retrieves a folded piece of newsprint,
something he’s torn from what I recognized to be today’s Hedge Road Daily.
#
Summon Seeks to Repaint VI Canvass: Jazz Developer to Promote New 4-D
Interface Dreamware On an ‘Open Foundation’ Basis
By Puton Clans
Summon Replisystems Inc. wants to get into your picture.
The virtual implant maker, whose Jazz technology is used in medicine for
artificial retinas and plays a behind-the-scenes role in collective unconscious dreamware
and services, is stepping up efforts to shape what users see on their implant canvass. In
one dramatic example, Summon has been developing interface dreamware with fourdimensional effects that are a time-twisting alternative to the familiar virtual implant
metaphor of landscapes, portraits and still life art.
Summon this week will announce plans to make the interface, dubbed Clockscan
II, along with related Jazz technology available on an “open foundation” basis, allowing
people outside the company to view and modify the implant code used to create the
programs. The announcement, one of many at Summon’s annual JazzOne conference in
Chicago, is designed to encourage other programmers -- particularly fans of the openfoundation Morel operating system -- to adopt and refine Summon’s technology.
#
“You can personalize your VI canvass,” Jack says. “Your young men shall see
visions, your old men shall dream dreams. Your lips have been purified by a burning
coal. The wings of angels. Yes, you shall hear the Voice.”
“No voice. Just stories, just dreams. Thought I might do some writing while the
family’s away.”
“Two weeks, Mark. I’m not going to let you spend it all by yourself on a
Dreamland holiday, writing your little stories inside the collective unconscious. We’re
going to have some fun.”
“I don’t know. I’m really tired.”
“You are tired of being you.”
“If I were more like you, then I would be less like me.”
“Exactly. So take a nap. Take some sacraments.”
“I don’t do that any more.”
“Yeah? But you’d still do it onbeam.”
That is true.
“You know, buddy,” Jack continues, “sometimes you’ve just got to let your sleek
dog run.”
I know what he means by that: A visit to Plato’s Palace, his favorite primal flesh
temple. I am not really sure I am up for that level of sinning. Before I can mount a 
- 24
suitable rebuttal, though, he points at the green digital clock on the control panel of the
wall oven (a $500 designer upgrade to the builder’s mid-level amenities package).
“Is that thing right?” he asks.
“It ought to be. It’s set to coordinated universal time.”
Jack just looks at me.
“The atomic clock in Fort Collins, Colo.,” I explain. “I get it off short wave
radio.”
He continues to stare.
“What?”
Jack sits his drink on the counter and shakes his head.
“What’s happened to you?” he asks.
“What do you mean?”
“Whatever happened to the Mark Leach I used to know, the one I grew up with,
the one who dropped his pants in front of my house one night while simultaneously
taking a whiz in the gutter, smoking a cigar and playing the air guitar solo to Van Halen’s
‘You Really Got Me’?”
"The drunk and stupid one, you mean."
"The fun one."
“He lost himself. Lost his way along the straight paths between the immutable
statues, granite slabs, where he is, even now, losing himself –“
“What the hell are you talking about?”
“He got old, I guess. Too many trips to Cici’s Pizza, too many Barney re-runs.
Too much the corny, wisecracking dad.”
“I don’t believe it. Anyway, I’ve got to go."
"Late again?"
"Not yet. I'm supposed to meet my architect in Oak Cliff in 10 minutes."
"A 30-minute drive."
"I got to pick up some plans for dad.”
“I thought he’d quit building. Only developing now.”
“Doing it for a friend. He had the architect incubate a Louisiana Planters Cottage
through the post-ceremonial dreams of the Tesuque corn dancers. Stayed plugged into the
Exogrid for a whole week.”
“Wow. I’d like to see those plans.”
“Me too. I got to get over there before he goes to dinner.”
“Have you ever been on time for anything?”
“You sound like my ex.”
“I’ve known you since -- what? Third grade? And I can’t think of a single
instance of punctuality.”
“Really?” He scratches the back of his head, pretending to think. “I’m sure there’s
been something, at least one time.”
“No, I’d remember it. You are totally reliable in your unreliability.”
“OK then, I’m not seeing the problem here.”
I follow Jack to his truck, an electric subscription model he bought a few months
back. It replaced a four-door monster with six wheels and a row of orange lights on the
roof. The big truck, Jack’s pride and joy, was a victim of a once-booming home building 
- 25
market recently rendered comatose by a defeated oil industry, a disastrous change in tax
laws and the collapse of the entire G&C industry. I hover outside the open window.
``So, about ten, then?’’ I ask.
``Ten? What are you talking about?’’
``Well, it is technically still afternoon, and it sounds like you’ve got a whole day
of work ahead.’’
``Yeah, but don’t wait till ten. That’s when we’re leaving. You’ve got to come
over before then.”
“Well -- ”
“I’m not going to do anything till you get there, you know that. I need you to kick
me into gear.’’
``So eight, then?’’
``Don’t pin me down, man. If I’m not home when you get there, let yourself in.
You’ve got a key. Loosen up, straighten out your priorities. Get your attitude adjusted.”
“My attitude.”
“Yeah. Drink my liquor. Play my stereo. Screw my cat. You know, just be Mark
Leach.”
#
A confession: I didn’t really run the mower over a giant cicada (or any other
creature of the unconscious). It was just a snake, an ordinary water moccasin. But I
thought a cicada worked better for the story. Cinematic license.
I love those Cicadians. Whenever I consider them, I can’t help but think of Clark
Caring and the pink skies of Planet Luh, his world of insectoid worshippers, his “beloved
creations.”
#
Why does “this god” let bad things happen to good people? Here’s a better
question: Why did the Valuosity Life Planning Inc. hire a new truth doctor and give him
my corner office and my parking place with my name on the curb in the basement parking
garage reserved for my fellow executives? And why did it transfer me to the LET
department and assign me to a little cubicle to write technical documents while my Lexus
LS400 sat under the blazing Texas sun with all the insignificant cars in the insignificant
employee parking lot? Let’s see one of you answer that.
Forgive me. You ask a fair question. Why do I let bad things happen to good
insectoids? That’s a good one for your best thinkers to ponder. But so far these past 20
centuries, they’ve done a poor job of it. No headway at all. Now with the world about to
end, you’re out of time. So I’m going to help. I shall attempt to answer the age-old
question with an illustrative story. No, not another story about how I make the lightning
flash and the thunder roll. Your smart-ass scientists seem to have figured that one out for
themselves.
This is the true story of a different Apocalypse: the last days of Planet Earth. The
end falls generally, give or take a few years, between the assassination of President John
F. Kennedy and the attainment of eternal life for all through the superior scientific
achievements of Valuosity Life Planning Inc. and other companies in the
military/industrial techno-structure. 
- 26
You might also say this is the story of the end of God, which is another way of
saying “the end of the world.” God equals world. Remember that. Without me, you’re
nothing. And I’m afraid you’re about to be nothing.
That’s right. I am dying. You weren’t expecting that, were you? Don’t look so
surprised. Even an eight billion-year-old extraterrestrial and former truth doctor of
Valuosity Life Planning Inc. has to die sometime.
Anyway, this is a really good story, complete with 1950s B-movie flying saucers,
gratuitous sex and a homicidal laptop computer. I think you’ll enjoy it. But first, before
the temple crumbles and everything goes up in the proverbial ball of fire, let’s check
God’s divine mail bag.
#
Yesterday you asked me if I ever think about Allison. As a matter of fact, I just
received a letter from her, a response to my request that she grant a blurb for the trade ads
at Oscar time. You know the sort of quote I mean. “Electrifying!” or “A tour de force in
cinematic storytelling” or “Brilliancy in a bottle.” Such a simple thing to ask, really. But
the news is not pretty.
#
June 25,
Dear Mark,
I received your undated letter today about your plans to call. Don’t bother.
We’ve been through this before: I will not lend my name to your moviemaking
schemes. I read your most recent concept. And despite rewriting key physical
characteristics, I know precisely who you intend this character to represent. I am not
stupid. You’re not fooling me or anyone else. Well, I guess you are fooling a few people
– the right people. Psychiatrists! How anyone can think you are not to be held responsible
for what you did is beyond me. Even so, my attorney informs me I can bring you back
before the judge for violating the cease and desist order. Just ask your so-called lawyer
“friend.” Or should I say your muse? God Mark, can’t you be any more original than
that?
Regards,
Allison
#
Did you notice the vaguely insect-like tone of her attack? It is actually a positive
development, a sign of the visionary transformation, delivered via a call over the viral
DNA dream phone. I filmed it in my last dream about her, standing with a group of
acquaintances outside a house in some rural area suggestive of the Land of the Dead.
#
We have just learned that the DNA of every human on the planet has been
converted to that of an insect. We feel unchanged, but I comment to those around me that
the outward transformation will begin soon. The new genetic code will transform us into
new beings. And sure enough, I am right. The scene changes and I find myself standing
over a comatose Allison. She is nude, covered in damp dirt. I am cleaning her with a
sponge, revealing the beginning growth of an exoskeletal thorax. “We’ll all look like this
soon,” I tell myself.
#
- 27
Of course, “she” is really me. The insect DNA is my own blueprint, the unifying
global pattern for life. And the journey.
I cannot help identifying with Clark Caring, creator and sustainer of the insecthuman hybrids of Planet Luh. I have received the prophetic, let-me-love-you plea from
the insect aliens themselves. In the beginning it was not easy to decode their
transmissions. The messages are beamed here from distant galaxies within, crackling
through flesh-covered speakers in a sort of mangled cicada cry. Over time, the
intercellular translators in the viral DNA dream phone smoothed out the discarded static
into a comfortable, almost melodic rhythm, a poetic form suggestive of the magneto whir
of the disintegrated Machine Society of the West or the dry, disconsolate rasp of buzzard
wings…
“After the saloons of old Strangers Rest stretches the desolate border zone,
territory of cowboys and cattle drives, ancestral beings trapped in astral wastelands,
electronic judgments imposed through ancient compound eyeballs the tint of washed out
gray. Driving through Deep East Texas Piney Woods darkness, rolling on past picture
perfect peaks, through the emaciated atmosphere towards a church that stands somewhere
in the East. A sense of bereavement catches in the esophagus at the vista of skinned
scenery, lifeless small mammals smashed in the road and scavenger birds gliding silently
above the marshes and aged tree remnants.
“Further on, drive-in accommodations with beautification plank partitions,
chattering sheet metal furnaces and sheer crimson bedspreads give way to an industrial
sprawl of glittering retention lagoons and ginger methane flames, quagmires and trash
mountains, carnivorous aquatic insects swimming about in wrecked funeral urns and
metal shipping containers. Glowing glass tubes entangle 1950s roadside lodgings,
stranded directors of primal goddesses and other lovely creations curse transitory autos
from the nowhere of highway medians, ignored atolls of nonsense. Now the electronic
judgments empty down in a dark rotating shaft, down from the azure heaven, that
devastating, gory, azure heaven of the Land of the Dead, home of the nameless, the
dreary and ghostly, the misplaced soul nationality – obligated to become, in effect, a
being without a genus.
“No emotion, no organization, a world-compelled phantom requirement,
spasmodically discharging warm globules of stale ectoplasm, detonations of DNA into
membranes of chilly interplanetary liberty, floating in celestial grime, departing once
again without the unfulfilled corpse left forgotten in a back room, the Vault of the Deity.”
#
From silent egg to crawling larvae, from sleeping pupae to screaming, mangled
cicada cry of summer. This is the message of transformation that I am called by the Deity
to spread across the earth. Don’t look so surprised. It’s not as if I received my calling
from an actual burning bush or anything in the outer, waking world. No, I could never
accept such a literal message. This is an inner process. Magnetica O’Famously put it best:
“We cannot determine if the Deity and the Land of the Dead are two dissimilar things.
Each one is an intermediate notion.”
Just like me.
Here’s a significant observation concerning Clark Caring’s extraterrestrial insects:
They are from inner space, too. These cinematic aliens are actually the forgotten spirits
imprisoned within contemporary Americans. The Cicadians pilot the aerial timepieces 
- 28
from the great beyond to the rim of our earth with the purpose of resurrecting the spirits
of the comatose. Their emergence from this underground “beyond” is an indication of the
outer incarnation of our inner alienation. So we needn’t resist the transformation. Rather,
we should just attempt to revive our own self, even as we know that the self we seek
could be a sham and our revival an extraterrestrial conspiracy. Or something to that
effect.
#
What’s that? Oh yes, I am aware of what Allison’s parents have been saying
about me in the press. Clearly they fear for their daughter and grandsons. Imagine it:
Allison, a Jewell Charity debutante, married to a murderer!
So misguided, so sad. Besides, there are so many people upon whom we could lay
equal blame. Plenty of stock characters in this movie. There’s the mad scientist, Dr.
Adolfo Morel. The power-hungry billionaire industrialist, William “Dollar Bill”
Buckstop. The Hive Leader of the Cicadians (aka Bellero Shield). Still, I remain
everyone’s favorite villain. Perhaps I should have done more to save Jack and the girls,
more to save the world. But how? Alas, such an outcome is not in the script.
#
Lost in an explosion of tiny pieces of metal, a shower of aluminum foil - no, that’s
not right. It’s a single piece of aluminum, the housing of a giant orbiting space timepiece
-- a Clock in the Air.
Across the room, I see a lab-coated man seated at a bank of computer monitors,
working the knobs on a sprawling control board. The central machinery is familiar. Could
it be – yes, it’s Seymour Cray’s 6600. Three hundred fifty thousand transistors and one
metal plaque -- Property of Ozona International.
On one of the dual round screens I recognize downtown Strangers Rest.
Frederiksbad Street is littered with the still glowing remains of extinguished torches. The
albino-fleshed, red-mouthed Dr. Morel gazes upon me. Do I see a malevolent gleam in
his eye? No, just the reflection of a blue-green computer readout, flashing “6:47 a.m.”
“And the famous Adolfo Morel,” I say. “Working on Ozona’s next new ad
campaign, I see. Mineral water for the apocalypse, perhaps? An elixir for revelatory --”
I cast about for the right phrase, but the words will not come. Something is wrong.
The words orbit around me, detached and paralyzed, exiled and numbed by the habit of
self-grief.
I see another metallic snake, this one affixed to my navel.
I want to pull it out, but I can’t seem to make my hands work. Something is
stopping me. I am blocked by – cloth. I am encased in a black cloth sack. I stare out
through two holes, a deep sense of separation and dejection, of dizziness and
disorientation, suddenly transcended by the scent of roses, mystic icons weeping blood,
statues moving of their own accord, a cloud formation in the shape of a well-known
corporate logo emitting a bolt of blinding white light. I try to speak, but my mouth
doesn’t work, either.
“No use fighting it,” Dr. Morel says. “It’s all in the script, all premeditated.
Melancholy journalist turned celebrity messiah. Though not looking quite so celebrated
tonight, Mr. Leach. No, not so celebrated at all.”
- 29
I manage a nod from within the distended aura of abstraction, caught up in a
swirling fog of broken glass and fire trucks and blood and smoke. The lab-coated man
has turned his back on the monitors to focus squarely on me.
“He’s precisely as advertised,” he remarks, his countenance suggestive of a young
Albert Einstein. “An authentic neurotic with free flowing discharge.”
“What’s that?” I ask.
“Your palms. In the initial draft, The Stranger wrote you as a stigmatic."
The black sack is now gone, so I can see myself again. Sure enough, my hands are
bleeding.
“We read all about you in The New York Agenda,” Dr. Morel says.
“What a creation,” Young Einstein marvels. He turns to Morel. “Look at his
face,” he adds. “No scar.”
“I’m right here, you know,” I complain. My mouth is loosening up a bit, but I’m
still struggling to unplug the metallic cable from my navel. “You might try talking as if –
“
But it’s no good. My powers of speech are still failing. The film has broken inside
me; the projection bulb is melting the celluloid.
I find myself spinning heavenward through a shower of bleeding icons and rose
petals and lightening bolts as Morel tells me about the future, the world after my rebirth
as the world’s first privately owned and operated deity.
“Life will be strictly controlled through the imposition of an entire collection of
electronic manuscript requirements. The Wise Ones will subject residents to electronic
boulevard search and seizure by skinless auditors, who will wear tin stars affixed to their
erect DNA delivery organs. The goal is total sexual demoralization. Official notations
will be entered into the genetic ledger, and those without the proper notations will be
subject to indefinite nude incarceration in ashen-walled prisons comprised of vanishing
brick and mortar, an uncertain state of affairs that will inevitably result in charges of
jailbreak. The problem will be defined as a noxious chemical imbalance, of course,
treated with Fluoride9. So as you can unmistakably comprehend, the industrial options
are infinite.”
#
In bed at home alone.
Despite Jack’s best arguments, I decide to stay in my first night without family. I
am committed to getting some much needed sleep. Tonight I will be good. But sleep will
not come.
How can it? Goodness is a lie. I am experiencing a crushing depression. I seek
sleep for escape, not rejuvenation. What can I say? Maybe I got old. Too many trips to
Cici’s Pizza, too many Barney re-runs. I’m too much the corny, wisecracking dad. Or
maybe I’m not enough.
Listen once again to the hollow slam of the tailgate of Allison’s Volvo station
wagon, its rear bumper disappearing around the curve at the end of the street; her fist
slamming on the pantry door while I knell in the tiny closet, cleaning up a broken bottle
of juice; a phone slamming in its receiver, seemingly forever.
Everything I contemplate is wretched and desolate.
This is a world of death and shadows. Urine-tinted vapor lamps illuminate the
desolation, a terrain of crumbling failure somewhere near the Land of the Dead.
- 30
Devalued investment real estate, an old apartment complex. Several of the
buildings appear to be vacated, condemned, surrounded by cyclone fencing, doorways
and windows covered in warped plywood. Muffled voices and ominous rumblings escape
from ghost units, wreckage of miserable depravity, squander of comatose electrical wires
swollen and burned out, thick vines consuming the extinguished shell of a charred
Camaro, snaking up through jagged holes in the rusted floorboards and springs of naked
seat cushions, gripping the skeletal body tight to the crumbling asphalt under the dead,
bitter light of the vapor lamps. Insects and nocturnal birds swarm overhead, darting in
and out of the urine glow. A night snake ripples across a swimming pool slimed over
with emerald scum. Bankrupt patio, dried stems of giant thistles and sunflowers sprouting
from cracked sidewalks. An emaciated feral cat stalks its shadow, slinking against a
ruined wall marked with spray-painted gang visual rumors. And then, something immoral
and repugnant, gazing back in censorious dread. I know this strange creature: it’s me, my
reflection caught in the rear view mirror.
A dream from my early 20s: I am bitten by a winged demon, transforming me into
a Hell’s Angel. I join a band of these pitiful creatures flying through the night. We are
circling a house (or perhaps a town), then I realize that dawn is approaching. We must
leave, go down to the underworld to escape the rising sun. I am sad because I realize I
can never again be part of the waking, daylight world. I fly with the evil ones now, life
through oxygen containers and I.V.s, prepared for a satin-drawn coffin, arms folded like
bat wings and lip stitched together in a silent scream.
I open my nightstand drawer. Jack’s porn gear, conveniently stashed here at his
urging.
“Sometime during the next two weeks, you may need to let your sleek dog run,”
he explained.
I read the label on the box of patches: “OFD Movable Pro 890, Instantaneous VI
Cohort.” This is the new Frames CE, a slimmed down version of the Frames operating
system designed just for handhelds.
I tell you, lots of dream jockeys trash talk “FramCE,” noting that it can’t handle
high-speed multisensory recollections or run the latest 64-bit dreamware. But that’s not
what it was designed for; Frames CE is for going onbeam on the fly. I’ve been lusting
after this new system ever since I’d read about the instant-on capability. You can do a
couple of minutes of onbeam creating without first waiting for the usual five-minute
Frames boot up. (My favorite VI of all time is the old Zandy DP-2, a bulky, wristwatchstyle interface that boots instantly from ROM. It was -- and still is -- perfect for dream
writing; the DP-2 can hold enough neural charge for 10 hours of uninterrupted operation,
quite an “improvement” over the usual two or three hour charge of most of today’s
transdermal patches. Of course there is a trade off. The DP-2’s implant canvass is
hopelessly outdated and crude, really nothing more than charcoal sketches. But
sometimes that’s enough.)
I unwrap a thumbnail-size patch and slap it on my forehead. Clip on the
transceiver (titanium, nice!) to my left earlobe and plug the other end into the wireless
card. Then I switch on the PDA and plug in. Instead of the usual hypnogogic flares and
random RV-DOS codes of the boot up process, the implant canvass flashes a copyright –
“Another Invention of Morel” – and immediately jumps to the Exogrid, in full 3-D, alive
and in living dream color. 
- 31
In the distance, rhythmic tribal drumming and vague chanting. A large quantity of
inconsequential imagery, a distracting, leafy blur of banana trees and elephant ears and
tropical cartoon-like visions of macaws and jungle cats. I feel a sudden wave of nausea.
This program is lousy with jimson weed. But by closing my eyes and concentrating on
the tone and the rhythm of the drumming and the chanting, the queasiness passes. The
jungle images surge and became even more vivid. Flying over landscapes, past rhythmic
African prototype warriors who look heavenward as I zoom past. And I see something
else: a bright, rectangular entity floating in the distance, blazing like the sun.
This aerial entity possess within it a sort of stage -- no, a screen. It is a drive-in
movie theater, and the show is already playing. I am still too far away to make out all of
the action, but it occurs to me (in that strange way knowledge sometimes just seems to
come to you in the dreamscape) that my judgments, or expressions verbalized in my
brain, are representing themselves on the movie screen.
I am the director of my own movie.
I realize I am still watching all of this on the inside of my eyelids, and I wonder if
this is a sort of dream within in a dream. So I decide to open my eyes.
The movie screen is still present, but it is now anchored firmly to the ground on
giant, metal legs. And instead of flying, I am at the wheel of my old 1970 Cutlass
convertible, parked at the Astro Drive-In. We’re back in the old Hydrocarbon Age, a
crescent moon and the evening star shining bright against the purple twilight sky of 1979,
on or about the last night of my youth.
Despite the impossible visual angle, I can see through the sheet metal fencing to
the marquee out front. I understand that the feature presentation is supposed to be “Urban
Cowboy,” one of the last movies I ever saw at the Astro. But for some reason I cannot
actually see this movie, a phenomenon that suggests the central part of my retina has been
burned away, the result of gazing too long into the dazzling light of original experience.
And then I am in an examination room. “They” are studying me.
#
Clinical, domed ceilings with gray white walls – smooth, sleek, varnished,
unbroken walls. Gaunt metallic hallways and curved hallways, voluminous medical
equipment on wheeled carts and affixed to floor-to-ceiling windows. In the corner, a
terrestrial observer, an old man in a thick cardigan sweater and wrinkled hands endlessly
working over a red potato.
I am here, and I am far away: In the downtown of a small Texas town. It is
morning. Nobody on the street. I am in a store, perhaps with my family. I leave with my
purchase, a rolled up poster. I take it to a storefront a few doors down. This is my
business – perhaps a furniture store, maybe a café. It is done up in cowboy décor. I unroll
the poster, which I see is also in a cowboy theme. The poster is long and skinny, more
like a scroll. I look around for a suitable place to hang it. Then I am startled to see that I
am not alone.
A woman is sitting in a black vinyl recliner, slumped deep in the cool, dark
cushions as if asleep. And perhaps she had been sleeping, but now she is fully awake,
looking at me. Then I recognize her: She is Nanny, my great grandmother who died 30
years ago.
I can’t believe it. Nanny, back from the dead. I look into her face, study her
countenance. It’s her all right. She looks good, too, maybe in her 60s. She does not 
- 32
appear ancient and sickly like I remember her the last time I saw her at the nursing home,
a few weeks before she died.
“You’re so pretty and young,” I tell her. She thanks me and says “I have some
things to tell you, both good and bad. So pull up a chair and sit beside me.”
I do as she asks and sit in front of her, knee to knee. But I don’t wait for her to
talk. She has information I wish to acquire.
“Is there a heaven?” I ask.
“Oh yes, and it’s wonderful. You don’t earn your way there. Everyone can go.”
“Oh, I’m so happy,” I tell her. And I mean it, too. Because I am a doubter. So it is
nice to have confirmation of the un-confirmable from someone who has seen Heaven first
hand.
Then she disappears, but somehow I know she is still here. And I know this is not
good. Still, I must proceed.
“Now tell me the bad,” I say. “What’s been troubling you?”
Suddenly I am propelled upward toward the ceiling, tossed skyward as if by an
unseen hand. Then I fall to the floor. Perhaps this visitor is not Nanny at all. Time to
escape. I run for the door.
I decide the lights are already turned off, so all I need to do is lock the door and
return to the safety of my family at the nearby store. Only I can’t get the door to latch.
I’ve set the door knob button to lock, but the door will not hold. I even tear away some
foam weather stripping that I think may be the problem. Still no luck. Then I glance back
inside the store for one final look. A vinyl restaurant chair is moving about all by itself ,
and I know immediately it is being propelled by a demonic force. So that is it. My store is
really a diner for demons.
#
Laid out on an operating table, strapped down like a dogfish ready for dissection.
A lighted, arm-like device wielding piercing instruments of surgical steel
performs the extraction and shattering of bones, the dissection of organs, the suction tube
extraction of ectoplasm from the DNA delivery organ. Then organs and bones are baked,
re-calibrated and reinstalled, allowing me to unconsciously pull in transmissions from
distant galaxies within and detect the distortion created by strange forces without.
Re-assembled, I rise from the table and glimpse my reflection in the polished
metal walls. I appear exactly as before; the ordeal leaves no unseen marks or scars. And
yet, something has changed. I view the future as contained in glowing drawers of humaninsect hybrid fetuses, the children of a hidden planet that surrounds the subject in an alien
trip, the attraction of the borderland and the epic film. The image is blinding, almost
beyond comprehension. Then the narrative voice-over:
“The motion picture offers a place where self absorption can inflict the first
wound, a psychic wound in the heart of the aggressive drama of the mind -- a moviegoer
internalized by his own continuity. In the rhetoric of violence an exploitation ensues. The
church that lies somewhere to the East is rediscovered, but in ruins. Bitterness and
loneliness, killer, negator, scourge -- lost in despair. A modern sense of exile is projected
onto the screen of the past, where convention and tradition conspire to heighten the
constriction of life, estranging us from emotional life. His emotions do not belong to him.
Rather they belong to a Stranger, a double who is oddly familiar in his recapitulation of
experience. Psychically wounded, a visual rumor of limitation and pride, rendered 
- 33
impotent and furious. Violence and The Stranger, an agonizing rage, engulfed in guilt or
fear.”
#
I’m told alien abductions are the most commonly selected dramatic scenarios of
onbeam travelers in the collective unconscious. In my case, I was drawn to 1950s Bmovie sci-fi imagery as an alternative to the lucid technical and systematic principles of
our age, a familiar and yet entirely novel direction that can be looked upon as the outward
amplification of an inner legend.
Through the Archetype of the Alien, I firmly believe we can pursue the
interpretation of reality as a subject of general story believability and then proceed to –
eh, what’s that?
Oh. Well, that is interesting that you are most drawn to the sexual imagery.
Perhaps pornography is my special gift.
As for you being Luh – yes, I must admit that the young woman on the
neighboring island bears a great symbolic resemblance to you in high school. As I gazed
upon her I did genuinely consider what it would be like to have you again in the back seat
of the Cutlass, this time enthusiastically penetrating your membranes, expelling my
ectoplasm inside you. Filling you with my spirit. However, you never allowed me to
express my feelings in quite that way. You were always the nice girl.
But then came last year, when we met again and you promised we would run
away together. Still you do not remember? That is too bad, for a claim of virginity rules
you out as the muse.
Luh is neither virgin nor whore. She is a being of the unconscious, a tour guide to
the internal existence, an arbitrator of waking world awareness of the often ambiguous
landmarks and residents of inner reality. She assists in the investigation of significance
and is the inspiration of and for the existence of the movie director. In short, the muse is
an escort through – and at the same time a personification of – the Land of the Dead.
She is always trying to escape this ghost terrain, to take up residence in the
sunshine of the waking world. One of the ways the muse attempts to do this is by
projecting herself onto the real women in my life. Unconsciously, I am forever
attempting to compel women like you to become a living host for my muse, the carrier of
my own inner world – a membrane to be penetrated, an external receptor for the
expulsion of the internal ectoplasm of visionary experience.
I am an odious being, of course. I should see people for who they really are, not
for their resemblance to some inner aspect of myself. So one of the jobs I have given
myself for the second half of my life is to work hard at recognizing this “projecting” as
soon as it occurs. I must cut the power to the projector and send the muse back inside my
head, where all imaginary beings belong.
And yet, I cannot do so when it comes to you, my love. You would make a highly
desirable muse. According to the cinematic images of my dreams, you are the perfect
physical host. I have already begun to animate the muse inside you. (In the language of
B-movie sci-fi, I am Dr. Frankenstein and you are my artificially created bride,
assembled from body parts unearthed from my own unconscious.) If you will voluntarily
enter my dungeon lab and submit yourself to the final stage of the transformation, the
animating process will be nearly effortless. Granted, the price will be high. Most likely,
you will quickly tire of being a psychological archetype. You will say “enough” and walk 
- 34
away. That is for the best, because people should not be archetypes. But if you do not
walk away – well, the muse will totally consume you. She will induce you to surrender
your unique individuality. You will be compelled to lead me down into the darkness,
through the creative process deep into the Land of the Dead. I will be forever bending
you over in the hot shower, penetrating your membranes with my DNA delivery organ,
expelling my ectoplasm inside you, filling you with my spirit. Would that be so bad?
Compliments, adoration, inspiration – I will demand it all. And still, I will always
be questioning the situation. Is she really my muse? Can it be there is still some
unconscious remnant of the individuality of the former owner of this body – what was her
name again? You will be a mere receptacle, which is to say no longer “you” at all. In the
end, the muse will destroy us both. Hey – I think I just outlined the concept for my next
movie. Can you believe it? The muse strikes again.
So, perhaps you are the muse after all. In light of this revelation, I am going to
skip ahead in the narrative and tell you about the time the son of the muse – our love
child? – tried to murder me.
#
Luh came to visit again last night.
But the visitation does not occur here, on the island. Somehow we are at the home
of Allison’s parents, where I am cleaning up after the burglary that preceded the big road
trip. It is not pleasant. I am about to the lower the garage door when I hear a crash inside
the house. A wave a fear washes over me, sends my stomach into sommersaults. Could
the burglars still be inside? But then I hear a cry. A woman’s voice. How dangerous can
that be?
“Hello? Are you OK?” I ask.
No answer. Then another crash, apparently from Allison’s old bedroom. My heart
is pounding, but somehow I find the courage to creep down the hall, past family photos
and framed elementary school report cards. I rip open the door and find Cinnamon,
sprawled across the eyelet bedspread. She is lying on her side, one hand propping up her
head and the other resting on her hip. Wearing nothing but a dark tan and a smile. My
arms goes limp; I drop the hammer.
"Sorry about the racket,” she says. “I accidentally knocked over a stack of shoe
boxes. She must really like shoes.”
"Allison's definitely into fashion."
Then she rolls onto her stomach, and I see that she is not Cinnamon at all. She is
Luh.
She kicks a foot up behind her, as if relaxing at the beach. Indeed, hanging over
the headboard is a lake painting Allison did in high school. There is boat with a
fisherman looking toward a pair of sharply peaked mountains in the background. I try not
to stare.
"I'm guessing the loot is already gone," I say.
"Hours ago.”
"How about I call the police."
"I'll just tell them what you did to the piano and the painting."
"Like they'd believe you."
"What do you care anyway?"
She is right. I don’t care.
- 35
Luh swings her legs over the edge of the bed and pulls on one of Allison's old
bath robes, an artifact from high school.
"Now it’s time for your gift," she says.
My gift? But then why did she put on the robe --
From under the bed she retrieves an old laptop computer. My eye immediately
lands on the corporate logo, the venerated icon.
"Is that -- ?"
"A Macintosh Portable," she explains. "The 5126."
"The backlit model?"
"It will be perfect for your writing. See? It's been restored to mint condition."
She sits it on the bed, flips open the lid and hits the power button. It immediately
clicks to life.
"It's got the rebuilt battery," she explains. "And the 8 meg PDS slot RAM card
from Dynamic Engineering."
As it finishes booting, I gaze into the system screen, glowing pale in the
deepening twilight.
"It's got the hard drive upgrade kit, too?" I ask.
"That's right. I replaced the 40 meg Conner with a 500 meg PowerBook SCSI
drive. It’s formatted and loaded with Mac OS 7.01."
I pick up the humming computer, hold it in front of me. "Where did you get this?"
I ask.
"You like it?"
"Like it? It’s fantastic. I’ve heard of Japanese collectors who’ll pay upwards of
$1,000 for a 5126 in this condition. But why?"
Suddenly, the computer begins to change in my hands. The white plastic case
darkens to a light bronze flesh tone. Arms and legs spout from the various serial ports. It
is becoming a doll -- but not a nice one. This is a homicidal Chucky doll, writhing and
struggling in my hands, its face twisted in hate.
"What is it?" I ask, trying to keep my fingers away from the snapping jaws.
“A reincarnated unkind being.”
I put my hands around the doll’s neck and squeeze, but that just makes it fight
harder, trying to bite me. This Chucky wants more than a taste. He wants me dead.
“Sometimes he goes too far,” she remarks. “But he’s always the first to admit it.”
"Quick, pick up the hammer! Smash its skull."
Luh shakes her head.
“We must positively integrate your destructive impulses, not indulge them.”
"Smash it now,” I repeat.
“He just needs attention. He needs love.”
“Love? It's a killer."
"But he’s our baby."
And then the hammer is in my hand. I strike at the psychotic computer, again and
again – splintered plastic, scattered microchips, a river of teeth, a raging current of
broken incisors, saliva, blood and other bodily emissions.
Don’t I feel good now?
#
- 36
I know you are familiar with the story. Everyone is. But it’s all from the news
media. All lies. Before we go any further, you need to understand what happened the
night of my alien abduction scenario from MY perspective.
Here is the true story: I experienced an apocalyptic vision.
Not my first, but it was perhaps my most important. This is one that led me to
create my famous tag line: “Here’s one way the world ends.”
#
Here’s one way the world ends: I am in Louisiana, walking east along the El
Camino Real towards Fort Jesup, the capital of the Land of the Dead. I come out of the
ancient turpentine mist and the dripping Spanish moss and the pines and find myself at
Trinity Baptist Church, the same one my grandparents belonged to (and many of my
relations still do).
As I approach, I am amazed to see that next door to the church is an old white
chapel I remember from my childhood. I have not seen it in years. It should not be here,
but it is. What a find!
I look inside, and it is just as I remember. The last attendance figures are still on
the little sign at the front of the church. It is like a time capsule.
But all is not well. The front of the building is gone, sliced off like a piece of
cheese. The pulpit and pews are all in place. But, no -- that’s not right. Because I can see
into the basement. It is flooded with water, creating a sort of pool. A concrete ramp
disappears into the water, suggestive of a boat ramp at a lake.
From out of the ruins, I am greeted by an old man in a plaid flannel shirt and a
short, neatly trimmed beard. I learn that he is a former pastor of the church, now retired.
He tells me he is in the process of restoring the old chapel. But after he took off the front
of the building, it rained and the basement filled with water.
I am sad, for I realize that the church had been safe all these years but due to his
ill-timed restoration efforts it is now in danger of total destruction. Surely, the cost of
repairing the water damage is beyond the means of this old man. Still, I am happy that I
have rediscovered the old church, which I thought had been demolished decades ago. At
least I am seeing it for one last time, a joy flowered in difficulty.
A car arrives. It is my wife and our two sons. They are here to pick me up so we
can continue on the last couple of miles to my grandparent’s old house, where the Leachs
hold their annual family reunion. I suggest we walk the last stretch. Allison is skeptical;
however, she agrees to my plan.
We walk a bit, but soon I become disoriented. The route does not look the same
on foot. I take the wrong road, and we wind up in a hot, deserted stretch of country. It has
been denuded of the lush pine forest that dominates this area. The boys begin to complain
about the heat. They are thirsty. Allison remains silent, furious. And I am overwhelmed --
overwhelmed by the nausea of failure, one more broken attempt to transcend the
everyday.
- 37
#
Morning, face smashed against a gravel walkway. I awaken to the temperate
nudge of boot to ribcage.
"Sorry, thought you were dead."
The boot belongs to Sam Cunningham, precinct No. 3 county constable and
perhaps the last person I want to find me sleeping on the front steps of the old derelict
Strangers Rest Baptist Church. But maybe I’m not really here. Maybe I’m still onbeam. I
touch my forehead, and hope vanishes. The VI patch is gone.
Will he arrest me? I see the headline, in my own paper no less: “Reporter arrested
for vagrancy, trespassing.”
Certainly the state of affairs does not appear promising. But there is another
reason he might wish to haul me in: I have written unfavorably about him.
The previous fall, the county commissioners cut Cunningham's constabulary
budget from $46,728 to $15,006 and his salary from $33,000 to $9,000 because of
accusations by the precinct No. 3 Justice of the Peace Hubert Skinner and some residents
that he'd quit serving civil papers. That didn't merit more than a news brief in the
Northeast Extra. The big story came soon thereafter. Skinner locked Cunningham out of
the office they shared on Frederiksbad Street. The judge said the constable and his
deputies had a habit of going through his files. So he had Cunningham's office dismantled
and its content stashed in the old county jail. Now that was a good story. They even put it
on the wires; it appeared in papers all over the country. Sam was a coast-to-coast joke.
In all fairness to Sam, he never complained to me. But I did receive an
anonymous letter, a copy of the story and the Bill of Rights. The passage about freedom
of the press had been highlighted with an orange marker.
"Great to see you," Sam says, helping me to my feet, looking me over. His hands
work my shoulders, feel my bones -- me in my rumpled golf shirt and khakis, blood-filled
eyes with gravel pressed into my check, he in his starched brown uniform, shiny brown
Ropers and .357 magnum.
"You OK?" he asks. "You don't look so good."
I can't believe it. He is even concerned about my appearance. He won't be
arresting me after all. Ah, there's nothing like old friends.
"I'm fine, just a little tired."
“He’s not here today.”
“Who?”
“The new owner.”
“I didn’t know there was one.”
“Yeah, he’s a movie director or something. Been filling the place up with all
kinds of lights and cameras and film gear. He even had the electric company put in a new
transformer. He's running 440 volts."
I look at the old chapel. From the outside nothing seems to have changed. The
heavy front doors are still chained and padlocked, the faded metal "for sale" sign is still
stapled to the white clapboards, chimney swifts is still darting in and out of the louvered
belfry. Everything is just as it had been for the past five years, ever since the
congregation of the Strangers Rest Baptist Church decided to drop the "Baptist" for a "dot
com" moniker and move away from their historic property on Frederiksbad Street. Now
their home is out on a forlorn, treeless stretch of Interstate 35-W in a giant, metal 
- 38
warehouse of a sanctuary – a combination gas station/Exogrid church featuring a
multimedia stage for contemporary praise music and the pastor's "talk points" and
restaurant-style beepers to keep parents in touch with the nursery. (These Keepers of the
Deity have no interest in finding the church that lies somewhere to the East.)
"So, really great to see you," Sam says again, still feeling my bones.
"Yeah, me too." But what do you want?
"I've got a story you might be interested in."
Ah yes -- the price of staying out of jail. "Tell me about it."
"You know the street dance on Saturday?"
I know.
It is to be a fundraiser to save the Silver Spur, the empty rock shell of an old West
saloon (circa 1880) from the days when Strangers Rest was a rowdy cattle town. The
corner property is for sale for $60,000, but of course the big expense will be the
restoration -- a couple of million at least. So Strangers Rest has called in the big gun,
Cowboy Roy, a singing cowboy from the 1950s who owned a ranch on the edge of town.
He is resurrecting his old band, the Wrambling Wrangers, for a live broadcast on the
local National Public Radio affiliate.
"So, of course, as town marshal I'm in charge of crowd control, of security. But
there's going to be like hundreds of people. I can't control them all by myself, right?"
"Right." And I'm still out of jail.
"So I'm going to round up a posse."
"A what?"
"Yeah, I'm going to have my own posse, like on 'Gunsmoke.' I'm going to
deputize some of the local citizens."
"You can do that?"
"I called the attorney general's office in Austin. They gave me the OK."
"A posse in Strangers Rest."
"Probably the first time since cowboy days."
"You know, that is a good story."
"You could even be one of my deputies."
"Me?"
"Absolutely. You live here, you pay taxes."
"A reporter with a badge."
"You can ride a horse, too -- if you can get one. I'll even let you carry a shotgun."
We set up a time and place for the interview.
"And a photo?” Sam asks.
“Of course.” After all, I'll be the deputy town marshal.
"OK, then. I'll see you next -- hey, where's your car?"
"What? Oh, I walked."
"You want a ride home?” He jerks his thumb back over his shoulder, toward a
dusty old Toyota bubbletop.
“Undercover?”
“Yup. Probably the only constable in Texas who has to patrol in his own car."
"No, I'll just walk back."
"You still don't look so hot."
"I'm fine. See you tomorrow."
- 39
"I'll bring your badge."
"And my shotgun."
#
Poor Sam. The story of his fall from grace is even worse that I have presented.
After the contents of his office were locked up in the old county jail the commissioners
assigned Sam's duties to a deputy constable from another precinct. But the emasculated
constable still wanted to prove himself. So he continued to work at his reduced rate of
pay. He even tried to win over townsfolk by agreeing to take on the non-paying job of
town marshall. At least it meant he'd have a patrol car. But that didn't last long, either.
The city council voted to curb it rather than raise taxes to continue its operation. They
parked it in the mayor pro tem's back yard, the town's most expensive dust catcher. That
gave me another great story.
Poor Sam.
#
Walking Frederiksbad Street, a tree-lined residential street little changed since the
1930s. I move in and out of the shade the morning sun makes through the trees, enjoying
the view. There's a mix of craftsman-inspired bungalows, simple half-porch, center-gable
cottages and my favorite, a one-story red brick tutor with an S-shaped drive, vine-covered
porte coche and a red barn out back. An old woman with a hand trowel and floppy straw
hat works the front flower bed, tending her elephant ears and phlox. Allison and I used to
covet the place. We'd drive by every week, hoping to see a "for sale" sign. The old folks
just wouldn't die. They outlasted us, forcing us to the new subdivision where we had our
choice of three grades of carpet and a premium waterfront lot.
I feel a bit shaky, a wave of nausea building in the humid morning air. But
something is not right. I see patches of snow and white ice on some of the roofs. The
sunlight is thawing this white, which flows off a high stretch of tutor roof in the manner
of a mountain waterfall.
A few blocks later, an unusual house catches my eye. It looks like a tower
supporting a saucer-like structure. A UFO home. How did it get here, in downtown
Strangers Rest?
The house resembles a miniature version of the Tower of the Americas in San
Antonio. The shaft of the tower is made of glass and contains a spiral staircase. Doesn’t
look much like a house at all.
Next I spot an even more dramatic example of the UFO style. No tower, but a
much larger saucer structure, which is surrounded by a porch. I’ve seen this place before,
in a dream. I am with a companion, and we wish to have a closer look at this house,
which is clearly a significant piece of architecture. Someone is in front of us, pushing a
cart or baby stroller; they too are trying to get a closer look. It is twilight, and the lights
are already on inside the house, intensifying the UFO effect. The people in front of us
walk onto the porch – its ceiling dimly lit by flush-mounted light panels – and look inside
a window. The residents are inside eating dinner, and they are understandably unhappy
about this intrusion. I cannot hear what they say, but the meaning is clear. They send the
intruders away. So we leave, too, without looking inside or even seeing anything else of
the outside of the house. Clearly this place is not for me.
My nausea incubates in the next block, a collection of low-slung '50s ranch
houses with attached carports and big AC units on concrete slabs. No need to plant trees 
- 40
when you’ve got central air. I raise a hand to wipe the sweat from my forehead, and
realize for the first time that the VI patch is gone.
How did I get from my bedroom to downtown Strangers Rest? I squint into the
bright sun, the sweat now pouring off my forehead. It is hard to concentrate. My stomach
feels like curdled milk, overwhelmed by the nausea of failure. No way I will make it the
mile or so to my house. If only I can get to the Circle L, sit down in a cool, vinyl booth
near the cold cases and enjoy a carton of orange juice. I turn onto Frederiksbad Street, the
Circle L almost in view.
But a half block later it becomes clear I won’t make it. I sit down in front of a
vacant lot against a power pole. The scent of black crude somehow settles my stomach. I
close my eyes, just for a moment. But there is no time to rest. I must flee.
I am running down a freshly paved residential street, the scent of the black crude
filling my nostrils, a police car in pursuit. But he can't catch me. Adrenaline pumping, I
am running so fast that my feet almost leave the ground. I come to a dead end and leap
over the barricade like an Olympic star, leaving the police car far behind.
I hide in dark undergrowth, alone in the twilight shadows. And yet, I am not
alone. I have an accomplice, a stranger. We cannot be seen together. They'll be expecting
that. We must split up, go our own ways.
"Wait five minutes, then take off," I tell the man as I sprint for the next street
over.
It is evening now, and the neighborhood is empty. Everyone is inside for the
night. I come to a cross street -- the last big barrier before I get home -- and I see a police
car a few hundred yards away. He has pulled over a mini van, giving the driver a ticket.
With a little luck, I should be able to cross the street unseen. But I have no luck.
Suddenly, cars begin to appear. They are coming from both directions. The speed limit is
about 40, and the cars are following each other very closely. There is no opportunity to
squeeze between cars and cross the road. Then a car stops in the middle of the road, and
the traffic begins to pass slowly on the shoulder. This is my chance. I bolt between two
cars, just missing their bumpers. I've made it. But then, out of the shadows comes the
policeman. He is right behind me, too close for me to get away. He takes me down in a
flying tackle and we crash into a side yard filled with old buildings materials, salvaged
French doors, painted pine moldings and beaded boards and yellow Texas Star bricks
edged in dusty, crumbling mortar. The homeowner is there, too, and I say that I am being
attacked. Not realizing my attacker is really a policeman, he jumps to my aid, pinning the
officer to the ground.
"Thanks," I say as I run towards the alley. "Just hold him for five minutes, that's
all I need."
Then I throw myself through a plate glass window, like Tom Cruise in "Mission:
Impossible" and escape to the little town's historic central business district. But this is no
escape, either. Everyone has heard of me, the fugitive. A librarian I know tells the crowd
that they should give me a chance to explain myself, but her words fall on unsympathetic
ears. They're out to get me, a misunderstood creature pursued by torch-wielding peasants.
A group of Boy Scouts in khaki uniforms with red neckerchiefs swarm me, little hands
grabbing at my clothes. One of the older boys has a syringe, presumably filled with some
barbiturate that will make me easier to apprehend. Even without the injection, they will
surely win. I can't possibly fight off this many, even if they are only children. But having 
- 41
been a Boy Scout myself once, I know how to outsmart them. "Watch out, I'll breathe my
illness on you." I am so convincing that I can actually see my breath, a green dragon fog.
Scary! "I have V.D. Do you know what that is?" The scouts are speechless, wide eyed.
None of them know. So I tell them. "It's a disease that makes your DNA delivery organ
fall off." And they all back away.
#
I come to myself inside the Circle L, stretched out across plastic milk crates in a
cool, dark nook near the front counter. I feel tired, but the nausea is gone. I attempt to sit
up. No luck. I can’t quite get my arms to operate. A set of tough, wizened hands helps me
the rest of the way.
"Looky here, he's alive after all."
Gazing down at me, sweat-stained Stetson shoved back on his balding head,
stands Cowboy Roy.
"How long have I been here?"
"Oh, not long -- about 10 minutes. I saw you when you sat down out there on the
road. We had a heck of time getting you into the Bevomobile."
We? I look around and see the Boy Scouts. They have escaped from my dream,
clearly a troubling development. The Scouts eye me warily, taking care to stay far from
my mouth, source of the green dragon fog.
Cowboy Roy does not recognize their fear. He only sees them as another
audience.
“That’s right, boys, the Bevomobile,” he says. “It’s a movie star car, a white 1959
Cadillac convertible outfitted with rawhide seat covers, six-shooter door handles and a set
of polished longhorns mounted on the hood. I’ve been driving it since 1961, when I made
my last movie, ‘By the Guns Forgot.’ You boys ever seen that one?”
Blank stares.
“Well, they show it on the UHF stations sometimes on Sunday afternoons. Watch
for it. Now regarding the Bevomobile, it is one of my most prized possessions -- that and
my trusty Bisley.”
Roy reaches into a rhinestone-studded holster and comes up with the six-shooter
he inherited from his grandfather, a sheriff in turn-of-the-century Strangers Rest. He
gives the pearl-handled gun a quick twirl on his finger.
“I’ll be wearing this on stage Saturday night,” he says. “I always like to have the
big iron on my hip when I do the Radio Ranch. For my fans.”
“I heard tell you’re going to sell it,’’ says Odie Cowan, owner of the Circle L.
Roy spins around and stares.
“Who’d you hear tell that?”
“Oh yeah, it’s all over. That gun collector from Waco was in here last week. Told
me he’d heard about your famous old broken down six-shooter. For some fool reason he
wanted to buy it.”
Mayor Toots Tedwill picks up on the story, too. “That’s right. I heard he was
going to pay you a whole bushel of money for it.”
Cowboy Roy sets his jaw hard and shakes his head at the smiling men. “He was a
thief and an idiot,” he says quietly.
- 42
“Why what do you mean, Roy? Didn’t he make you a fair offer?” Odie asks,
winking at me. Everyone in town already knew what happened. And what Cowboy Roy
thought of it.
“He offered me $2,000,” Cowboy Roy says through clenched teeth. “I figure it’s
worth 10 times that, so that makes him a thief. And if he’d bothered to check around,
he’d known it weren’t for sale. So that makes him an idiot.’’
“Two thousands bucks sounds like a mighty fair price to me,’’ Toots says. “”After
all, it’s just a wore out old gun.’’
“Wore out?’’ Cowboy Roy roars. “Why, I’ll have you know that gun is priceless.
And famous at that. It was given to my granddaddy by the Texas Attorney General for his
service cleaning out Pancho Villa and his boys down in south Texas. Kit Karger and Big
Foot Wallace was at the ceremony. My granddaddy wore that gun the whole time he was
sheriff back here, and he kept on wearing it after that, right up to his dying day.’’
“Oh, well I didn’t know about all that,’’ Toots remarks, though of course he
knows. All the old folks in town know the story of Granpappy Thornton’s Bisley revolver
because Cowboy Roy has been inflicting it on them since they were kids.
“Wore out,” Cowboy Roy repeats, oblivious to the choked laughs around him.
Roy turns his attention again to me.
"You didn’t look too good when we carried you in here,” he explains. "Odie didn't
want me to bring you in. He was afraid you might die here, be bad for his business."
The store owner stiffens as he sacks up a quart of milk and a pack of Marlboros
for a tired-looking pregnant woman with a "Baby On Board" T-shirt. As soon as the door
closes behind her, though, he slams the cash register drawer and spins around on Cowboy
Roy.
"I just thought it might be something serious, that he ought to go to the hospital."
"Well, looks like he's going to pull through after all, so why don't you quit making
excuses and brew us up some fresh coffee?" Roy winks at me and whispers, "he didn't
want a dead body contaminating the Moon pies and Ranch Style Beans."
Odie disappears into the back room to secure another can of coffee, leaving Roy
without an audience -- an untenable situation. Roy's eyes quickly light on the far booth by
the restrooms, where 80-year-old "Toots" Tedwill is finishing up the crossword from the
morning paper.
"Yeah, Odie's just a broken down old woman," Roy says. "Not a young, good
lookin' cuss like me."
Toots doesn't look up from his paper. "I need a four-letter word for –”
"Now look out," Roy warns him. "We got a member of the press here today."
"You ought to take it easy on needling Odie. He says he's thinking about charging
for coffee."
Roy affects a look of shock. "No free coffee? But it's always been free. It's a
tradition. You can’t buy a cup of coffee in Strangers Rest.”
"Yeah, well Odie don't much care about that tradition,” Toots says. “He said 'if I
start charging for coffee, Roy's the only one cheap enough to quit coming. It'd be a real
win-win for everybody.'"
I try to smile, but I still felt too weak. Roy gives me a quizzical look.
“I've never passed out like that," I explain.
"Shoulda took him to the hospital," Odie shouts from the back of the store.
- 43
"We were a bit worried,” Roy admits. “We even called your wife.”
Allison. A fresh wave of nausea washes over me. I could almost see her at the
beach house in Maine, roused from sleep by my in-laws. ("Can't Mark take care of
himself for one day?")
"I told her she didn’t need to worry, though," Roy adds. "You were just sleeping
off a drunk.”
Then he starts laughing, slapping his hat against his leg. In exchange for my being
a good sport, though, Roy buys me a plastic bottle of orange juice and a Twinkie, just
what I need to bring my blood sugar back up to nominal operating levels. I rise from the
milk crates without assistance. Roy opens the door with one hand and jingles the change
in his pocket with the other, searching for his car keys.
Odie returns from the back room with a carafe of water, which he pours into the
top of the Mr. Coffee. “You don't have to put up with his carrying on," he says. "Roy's
not nearly as funny as he thinks he is."
“What do you know about humor?" Roy replies. "I'm the professional entertainer,
remember? I once shared a bottle of Jack Daniels with Slim Pickens."
"I remember. The whole town remembers. You don't give nobody a chance to
forget."
"I want that coffee ready when I get back." Roy smiles and gives me another
conspiratorial wink. But Odie doesn't see the smile or wink. His is squinting at the open
door, his attention focused on something outside -- something up in the sky.
#
To fall into an alternate reality – is that not the very definition of visionary
transformation? Consider how it occurred for Clark Caring:
#
A strange and disquieting morning, my beloved creations. It takes only a couple
of queries to confirm my suspicions, unbelievable and unacceptable as I find them to be.
This is the day I learn that Jehovah, the creator and sustainer of Planet Earth, has been
arrested.
#
Sen. Stone Says R.E.L. Four Should Resign
AUSTIN (SPM)— Sen. Raulston Stone on Wednesday called on Planetary
Administrator R.E.L. Four to resign, one day after berating him during a town hall
meeting over what he called an "abortive strategy" in the United States.
"I simply don't comprehend why we cannot acquire new management to give us a
genuine opportunity to reverse the course of events before it's too late," the Harris
County Federalist and potential presidential contender said in an interview with State
Public Media. "I believe the president should demand administrator Four’s immediate
resignation."
"The administrator has lost trustworthiness with the Senate and the House and
the people of the Republic of Texas," he said. "The moment for action is here. Four must
stand down and be exchanged for someone who can cultivate a successful strategy and
convey it successfully to the Texas people and to the world."
Stone had resisted joining the refrain of other Federalists demanding an official
sanction of Four. His remarks Wednesday were the harshest assessment yet from the man
considered his party's early front-runner for next year’s presidential nomination. 
- 44
The former Army general has come under attack from some in his own party for
voting for the police action five years ago and his current opposition to a deadline for
Texas troop withdrawal.
He criticized Four yesterday morning during a town hall meeting in Texarkana
near the demilitarized zone, where recent insurgent fighting has threatened to end the
47-year border truce between the two nations.
"Under your control, there have been abundant mistakes in reasoning that have
directed us to where we are," he said. "We have a full-fledged insurgency and full-blown
sectarian conflict in the United States."
In a celestial manifestation, the planetary administrator rejected some of Stone’s
specific criticisms as purely incorrect and said the war against sacrament abuse will be a
long-lasting course of action. He said he in no way has downplayed the troubles of the
struggle.
"I have in no way mislead you," he said. "I've been very deliberate in my
statements, and you will not be able to locate scripture in which I have expressed undue
sanguinity.”
#
Word of this amazing development apparently came months before, when a giant
clock suddenly materialized in the eastern sky. The world watched in dumbfounded
amazement as the hands climbed to 12 o’clock, then dissolved into a giant head. This
head bore a kind and benevolent expression, a unique countenance the citizens of the
planet instantly regarded as the face of a god (or, depending on personal religious
beliefs, a rock star or JFK).
“Greetings, Earthlings,” the giant head entones. “I am R.E.L. Four, a citizen of
the unseen, metaphysical world many of you know as Heaven. Today the Tri-Lateral
Court of Cosmic Affairs administered warrants for the arrest of Jehovah (aka Yahweh,
God, the Almighty, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost, Allah, Krishna, Zeus, et al) for
various and sundry crimes against humanity.”
How about that? After a few dozen centuries, God’s colleagues have finally got
around to checking on the insignificant world known as Planet Earth. Seems they don’t
like what they’ve found. Wars, rumors of wars, sickness, death, murder, hatred. Jehovah
has created a cruel and pain-filled world.
When they check the sacred texts compiled by His most beloved creations, they
aren’t real keen on what they find, either. A worldwide flood, a woman turned into a
pillar of salt, a man covered in boils and robbed of all he owned as part of a bet. And
when they reach the final chapter, they are downright unhinged by His plans for
destroying all of creation through a worldwide apocalypse.
“Deities have a responsibility to provide for the needs and wants of the sentient
beings they create,” R.E.L. Four explains. “Jehovah has violated that responsibility.
Clearly, he has become an irrational and dangerous being. Therefore, the Tri-Lateral
Court is holding him in administrative segregation until such time as he is compelled to
answer for his alleged crimes before a jury of his peers.”
Harsh. An Earth with no god? Unfathomable. How will we function? Who will
keep the planet rotating, the sun shining, the rain falling? And to paraphrase Ambrose
Bierce: Who will we ask to annul the inviolable laws of the universe on our behalf even
though we are confessedly unworthy?
- 45
Well, it turns out the answer is – R.E.L. Four.
Yes, he is assigned the job of putting right all that God has done wrong. A tall
order, to be sure. For R.E.L. Four quickly discovers that homo sapiens have a lot of
needs and wants, many of which are in extreme conflict.
Take the Republic of Texas, for instance. The Americans of the East Coast and
southern California did not like it that Texas had become an independent nation. Talk
about your impossible alternate realities. And yet, somehow under the watch of R.E.L.
Four, the Republic of Texas had come into existence. The history books said it began in
1861, when a 20th century nuclear weapon fell through a black hole and into the hands of
Sam Houston. The State of Texas re-declared its independence and joined forces with the
United States to quash the Confederacy. R.E.L. Four might have put it right again, except
for the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Texas insisted it was natural reality,
unaltered by artificial intervention. “They’re lying,” the Easterns and SoCal types
insisted. “Read their minds and you’ll know it.” But R.E.L. Four refused, insisting it
would be immoral to use his divine abilities to resolve what was in effect an earthly
dispute.
And then there was the problem of lottery drawings. How can R.E.L. allow all
players to become lottery millionaires without bankrupting the lottery, which is in fact
designed to fund public education? In that particular case, R.E.L. resolved the
millionaire/public education conflict by outlawing all lottery drawings. According to the
news archives, he wasn’t a very popular god that week. A Harris Poll put his popularity
rating at 20 percent and falling.
“I have learned there are many things a god cannot do,” R.E.L. admits during
the conclusion of one of his worldwide “giant head” fireside chats. “Certainly a more
fair and equitable solution to funding education would be taxes. The society benefits, the
society pays. Of course, taxes are no longer an option because as you’ll recall I
abolished them in response to an influx of prayers on the subject. Anyway, I’m sure that
together we’ll think of some way to pay for education. Blessings, and keep those prayers
coming.”
Kudos to the Prophet, for he has written into the sacred text that this new god
should have a problem common to many mere mortals: Talk too much do too few.
#
Despite having viewed “Let Me Love You” about a hundred times, it was still
some time before I divined the full visionary significance of the Clock in the Air. At first,
I thought it was literally a sentient being from outer space, like R.E.L. Four. But then I
came to see it as more than a cinematic allusion. The Clock in the Air is a metaphorical
message, one sent by the inner all-knowing me to the outer less-than-knowing me.
Consider the case of the extraterrestrial insects.
The giant cicada stands on its back legs, revealing an exoskeletal underbelly of
armored plates the tint of washed out gray. A whirring, rasping voice comes out of a
vibrating membrane on its thorax.
“First remove the log from you own eye, then you can help your neighbor remove
the speck from his,” it says.
I drop my drink, and the carmel colored liquid bleeds into the thick wool berber.
My heart staggers. Caught in a crime (and by a Bible-quoting extraterrestrial).
“I – I was just cleaning up,” I stutter.
- 46
The insectoid’s tympanum begins to vibrate again – but no, that’s not it. The alien
is talking through its eyes. “Do not be alarmed,” it says. “All who have eyes have eyes
that speak.”
#
The creature’s name is Bellero Shield. He tells me he is a traveler from inner
space who arrived in the Land of the Dead via a Sunday afternoon rerun of a 1964
episode of The Outer Limits.
“This is a creative visitation,” he explains, “a paraphrase of a favored motion
picture.”
“A movie?”
“Do you not recall the first words of the alien in ‘The Revolution of Zion,’ a QCT
Drama Special based on the extremely applauded work of print fiction of the same
name?”
I do recall.
“Haven’t seen it in years, though,” I say. “I read that it is lost in some film vault, I
believe, caught up in a copyright issue. Something about a Beatles song. But I do
remember it fondly. It was very good.”
“You remember it fondly because you are a being of the movies,” Bellero
explains. “And, of course, the movies are you. The epic film is employed to provide the
pattern for our manifestation. Earthlings are unique among the sentient beings of the
cosmos. It is normal for your species to have a split personality, living one utterly
neglected, unacknowledged way in the metaphorical inner world and one far-tooobvious-and-self-aggrandized way in the literal outer world. What your species does not
yet realize is the Deity is not an absolute life form living in the back of beyond. Nor is He
a supernatural creature in outer space or the heavens. He is not restricted by occasion or
location, the past or its formation.”
“So what is He?”
“The Deity is the underpinning of all existence. Everywhere else we have traveled
the reasoning beings already know this. They are of one mind, understanding the universe
and its creator as we do. The inner and the outer are just one world. They live in that one
world at all times, all feet regardless of number simultaneously in the inner and in the
outer.”
“It’s a little hard to manage on earth, even with only two feet.”
“And that, Mark Leach, is why you should understand that you have been given a
great gift – an Incredible Revelation. You are among the first Earthlings to experience
life as it is experienced by the creatures of the rest of the universe, the creator manifesting
itself in the creation. You are seeing the culture’s communal, extra-worldly perception
concretely realized in the waking world. The dream made flesh.”
“It’s more like a nightmare.”
“You don’t find the Clock in the Air beautiful?”
“How can I? I’ve dreamed death, the conclusion of time. I’ve dreamed my
hometown reduced to cinders.” I look at the wreckage around me, the hammer in my
hand. “And I’ve dreamed death. I am the bringer of death, youth whose memory drives
one to despair. I’ve done terrible things.”
“No, you’ve done great things, Mark Leach. Marvelous things.”
“But the destruction – ”
- 47
“Yes, the Deity is also a being of destruction. We must bravely say ‘bring on the
big world dreams.’ Nuclear-based brimstone, everlasting dark, bitter pursuit -- an awful
tragedy, huge anguish, Bengal tigers roaming free in subdivisions reverted to wilderness,
moth and mold consuming the flag, vines taking over pews and pulpits. The thing for you
is that you are the obliteration, the bomb blast. Senses are dulled, you can barely feel it.
You are medicated or something. You are far from earth, in total separation, the emotion
of being powerless in that state of affairs. You fall on the Martian surface, where you are
rescued from your burning spacecraft by an old girlfriend, the hidden assistant. For you
see, dreams are really about ourselves. The conclusion of time is a rebellion against the
sarcophagus, flames of torture, dream-bearing ballistic missiles, demonic control and
other tempests of mauve painted insanity. The ‘it’ is actually happening. You had Mars,
in a lunar-style lander that had stored in its pain banks one of the great cyclone visions of
all time. They always come back, spinning you around, perturbing you.”
“Pretty.”
“Precisely. Enjoy the beauty of the picture. But also be careful. The legend of the
conclusion of time attempts to captivate us with a larger-than-life metaphor that can
actually lead to seriously literal effects. Be careful of being charmed by this beauty, by
what is impressive. For it is possible that this Judgment Day performance may yet torture
and destroy the earth, which is to say you. Remember this: as sentient beings, we are
required to create. We are not required to live.”
- 48
The old men at the Circle L have their theories about the aerial timepiece, and
they aren’t afraid to share them.
"I tell you, it's a commercial for television," Toots says.
Roy shakes his head. "I tell you, it's an alien spaceship.”
I laugh, but then see by the solemn look on Roy’s face that he is serious. “You
don’t really believe in UFOs, do you?” I ask.
“We’ve known about them for years,” Roy explains, “ever since the '40s. We’ve
been maintaining the ruins of one out there in the wasteland in Nevada at that clandestine
air base on the dried up lake bed. Our scientists have been trying for years to reverse
engineer it. Looks like they finally did it. Ain’t that right, Odie?"
But Odie doesn't offer an opinion. He is busy fiddling with the double aerial of
small TV he keeps by the cash register.
"Got it,” he says.
The screen is full of azure skies. The camera pans down to a brilliant emerald
meadow labeled "Waterford, N.Y." Odie aims the remote at the set, and the orator
crackles into existence.
"-- was first reported at sunrise over this dairy farm in upstate New York , but it is
rapidly dispersing to the remainder of the country, at times with volatile consequences."
The view switches to a scene of firefighters and policeman busying themselves in
the area of a tractor trailer half buried in the side of a sheet metal structure. "Fifteen
people were injured this morning at a horse show in Oklahoma City, when a truck driver
lost control of a trailer of thoroughbreds and plowed into a horse shed.” A man in a John
Deere cap appears on the monitor. "It just fills the heavens, a hundred miles across. I
don't understand. It's like - I don’t know, it’s like it's the End of the World, the conclusion
of time. How can a guy make a living off the world any more when it’s all come to this?"
#
Traveling to the Attitude Adjustment Bureau in the Bevomobile. (Roy insisted on
driving me.) I see something new on the dashboard, a small oval medallion. Muse Sound
System.
“I ain't never noticed that before,” Roy says. He turns on the radio to check it out.
A voice like Moses emerges from the dashboard speaker.
"You are on Frederiksbad Street in Strangers Rest.”
“How about that?” Roy marvels. “They’re broadcasting from our town.”
I recognize the words. It is the narrative of a dream I experienced a couple of
years back, but now converted into the anonymity of second person: “You see that they
are demolishing the old brick house next to the winery, which is a converted church. This
is a house you and your wife have always liked and used to hope it would go on the
market so you could buy it for yourselves. Its destruction is sad. You don't know why it is
being torn down because the house appeared to be in good shape. Even now, the exposed
frame looks almost new. And the foundation – flagstones over which I advance once
again, through the hallways, meeting rooms, colonnades… the form of this mournful
mansion from an earlier time…this vast and magnificent mansion…where hallways
without end follow upon hallways…mute, deserted…enveloped in baroque
embellishments…mahogany veneer, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, Carrara
marble…dark glass, obscure illustrations, Romanesque columns…
- 49
Then you see that the house is gone. It has been razed to the ground, nothing left.
You realize that you have bought it anyway. You are using the site to construct a
walkway, a winding paved path labeled like a game board. This walkway encompasses
the old cement walks of the demolished house. The walkway will pass by the side of the
old ruined church-turned-winery but it really goes nowhere; it just makes a loop. It occurs
to you that what you have envisioned is a sort of park. And like a park it really should be
open to the public. Free. So you must come up with a way to make money from services
you provide to those who travel your Pathway.”
“Let’s see if we can get some news,” Roy says as he reaches for the tuning knob.
"Don’t touch it!” I yell, and Roy quickly puts both hands back on the wheel,
sending the Caddy into a sickening weave toward the highway shoulder.
“-- the publication is similar to your existing weekly bulletin, but with a more
modular design. You see on the cover that it says ‘Baptist.’ Someone explains that the
newsletter was produced by two people from a Baptist church. ‘This is just a test product
for us,’ they explain. ‘However, we may decide to adopt it as our own.’
“You are on the Pathway again, writing your scripts. You compose an opening
line: ‘He heard the voices of angels.’ Then you have a revelation. You revise it: ‘He
heard the voice of God.’ Excited, you continue writing. ‘But he knew not to talk about
the voice. So he wrote of strange happenings, which he understood would be acceptable
as fiction.’ You realize you finally have the movie you should make. You see that you
can include some short films you have already scripted. It can all be included in a
structure that deals with the theme of hearing the voice of God. You even see a lobby
card, a Medieval painting of a haloed Son of the Deity framed by parted clouds. You
have finally seen the truth behind your dreams. And that is what will make the difference.
You have heard the voice of God. This is the revelation that will make you a successful
movie director. This is your destiny.”
#
The astounding appearance of the aerial timepiece is big news at the Tarrant
County Register. Executive Editor Libby Wright has called in all hands to produce a
special end-of-time edition. I arrive at the Attitude Adjustment Bureau to find Guy Wint,
the bureau chief, covering the biggest story of his life the same way he covers the
smallest: Like a neurotic.
Guy is running from desk to desk, coffee cup in one hand and cigarette in the
other, already micromanaging the various assignments he’s handed out only minutes
before. He is particularly neurotic this morning because he is simultaneously directing
feeds to send downtown for the special edition and stories for a special section on
Wednesday. Working title: “Crossroads to the Sky.”
“All right, Mark, what you got for me?”
So I tell him about my Vision, my Incredible Revelation, about how I dreamed the
clock in the sky and the radio transmission from the Deity.
“Give me three inches on the Circle L. I’ll put it in with the rest of the feed.”
“You don’t get it,” I say. “I’m telling you I saw it all in the past, in my dreams.
Dreaming the Apocalypse. It is as if I have heard the voice of The Deity."
“The Deity?”
“I know it sounds insane, but there is no denying the oddity in the sky. Or that I
dreamed it, a merger of fiction and reality.”
- 50
Guy looks at me with obvious concern, and I don’t blame him. I know I sound
insane. But I can’t stop myself. I am compelled to speak of strange happenings, of my
Incredible Revelation, which comes spilling out in a tumble of uncontrollable words.
“When I awoke from the clock dream, I felt myself inundated with a feeling of
nearly divine grace. It was almost as if I came from the Deity, a canary in a coal mine,
first-line detector of brightness and vanity, depression as an entitlement, a civilization in
which everybody is fraudulently performing instead of genuinely existing.”
“Fraudulent?”
What am I saying? I should stop. This is abnormal for me. I am always one to
speak rationally, to keep my nose to the grindstone and my mouth shut concerning
strange happenings. I fear making a mistake, saying the wrong thing – failing to be a
perfected being. Why do I persist with my story? I sound crazy, imperfect. But I cannot
correct myself. I am in the grip of an Idea.
“We are a civilization that is all too battle-willing,” I say, “violent, pubescent,
gluttonous. We are dramatists without wit, intensity or thoughts, unspeaking in our muted
blazes. And I’m the worst, the biggest dramatist of all.”
“Oh no, Mark, I wouldn’t call you dramatic.”
“I have neglected the signs, the entire construction of images is assembled in my
head. But no more. Now it’s all coming out. It’s into the world, an attempt to overcome
the prearranged, the false experience imposed by the contemporary personality awareness
that dooms us to a simulation of genuine life. What is happening in the world is nothing
less than a message from the Deity, an insistence that we must escape our falseness and
become the truth.”
#
To Guy’s credit, he doesn’t cut me off or tell me I’m crazy. He waits until I’m
done, then nods thoughtfully, pretending to mull it over. “Are you saying God made it
happen? Or that you made it happen?”
“I don’t know.”
“You actually dreamed the clock, actually dreamed it up into the sky?”
“I don’t know. Maybe I just dreamed what was going to happen.”
“Like a prophet?”
“I’ve got a feeling it’s tied to an alien abduction scene I experienced last night
while onbeam –”
“Well there you are, Mark. You were in the Exogrid. It’s just a hallucination.”
“No, the clock is real. And so is the Muse Sound System.”
“They could be false memories, implanted while you were onbeam.”
I know he could be right. But I don’t believe it.
“I have dreamed the Apocalypse,” I insist. “I’ve been dreaming it since
childhood. My vision. I remember one time in particular. I am standing with my parents
on the front porch stoop of our house. I look out at our little town. The houses have been
destroyed. All that remains of Duncanville are the brick chimneys, rising above the
smoking ruins, monuments of blackened obelisks, fires of destruction burning red in
broken hearths, the world of childhood is no more.”
“Flash! You know, maybe we could sell this for P-1 as the Rapture. We should
interview someone. Hey Ringo, go over to North Hills Mall, see if you can find a
Christian.”
- 51
Ringo shrugs. “And if there aren’t any, maybe I could round up a Catholic.”
Guy ignores the sarcasm. “Mark, as for seeing weird things while onbeam, yes,
lots of people can relate to that. We’ll catch it on the Monday follow-ups. Hey Jenny,
how are you doing on that reaction from the soccer moms?”
The walls are bleeding again. Nazi paratroopers land outside the window. Tiny
white eggs on the back of my hand hatch into hungry wolf spiders, which proceed to strip
the flesh from my bones…
#
Do you see now why I abandoned journalism? It no longer functions.
I first recognized the absolute power of the movie metaphor in a particularly vivid
dream – a drive-in movie dream.
In this vision, I arrive at a desolate - perhaps abandoned - shopping center where
in recent times the owners have shown drive-in movies on the side of one of the
buildings. A sort of guerrilla-style drive-in theater. But when I get there, the movies are
no more. This was apparently the last drive-in theater in the world. I am sad, for this is
surely the End of the Age. Then it occurs to me that I should start my own drive-in
theater. I am sure I could make it work. But I realize this is not realistic for I have no
start-up capital.
The 1950s drive-in image continues as two cars line up for a drag race. One is a
real hot rod, a red Model A - a little deuce coupe, like one the Beach Boys might have
sung about. The other racer is a black sedan, the same winged car I saw outside my
grandparent’s house in Fort Jesup.
So this is to be a race with death.
The two cars take off in a cloud of dust and gravel. The black car immediately
abandons the race, peeling off to the right. The red coupe passes close to a parked car,
loses control and flips over several times. It is a terrible accident. The car crumples up
like a soft drink can and tumbles to a stop next to a building. I run to the crash scene to
render assistance.
A man exits the wrecked car and runs towards me, apparently uninjured but
understandably distraught.
“Is there anybody else in there?” I ask.
“My buddy!” he says, choking, almost in tears.
#
Overwhelmed by my own narcissism I slip away to the back room, a windowless
alcove where we keep the coffee maker and a mini refrigerator. Guy's three-year-old
daughter is sitting in the middle of the cardboard honor snack tray, grazing on
dishonorably consumed bags of Fritos and Butterfingers under the less-than-watchful eye
of Reece Sloan, the bureau's editorial assistant/receptionist.
"In the last five minutes, Charity's destroyed about $10 worth of chips and candy
bars," he complains. "No wonder the honor snack guy always says we've shorted him. I
myself paid him $5 out of my own pocket last week."
"Why didn't you stop her?"
"Because I'm not the baby sitter. I have a degree in journalism, something Guy
can never seem to remember."
I nod back toward the newsroom.
"He been like this long?"
- 52
"I found him this morning in the Bennigan's parking lot, trying to pick up a
waitress. He said he was doing a story about prostitution in the suburbs."
"I thought he was on the wagon."
"Does he look like he's on the wagon? He told me yesterday he'd maxed out all of
his credit cards buying coch. And Linda said one more time and she'd leave him."
"And she'll make him keep Charity, too, no doubt."
"Scary. Dan and I went over there to pick him up last week, while his car was in
the shop. There was a dirty diaper in the middle of the living room floor."
I want to tell Reece about my vision, but our conversation is disrupted by an
explosion in the parking lot.
We rush into the hallway and see the smoke and fire through the plate glass store
front. An iron gray plume is rising from a hole in the blacktop.
Customers from the Olin Mills -- kids and moms and dads in their Sunday best --
are already gathering at the jagged lip of a smoking crater. But no reporters, a situation
Guy finds untenable.
“Say, did anyone notice there is a newsworthy explosion in the parking lot?" he
asks the newsroom.
"We noticed," says Chandler, a former downtown Metro reporter reassigned for
attitude adjustment. "But that's breaking news.”
“Does that not interest you?”
“Of course, but that's a downtown story. Front page. I just cover bureau life. Back
page. For instance, I'm busy right now producing 12 to 15 inches about a man who has
trained his pet parrot to take early morning joy rides on the roof of a remote control
police car."
"I've just about had enough of the attitude this morning.”
“Why? After all, this is the attitude adjustment bureau.”
“I hate that nickname.”
"And the parrot sings, too. ‘Sunrise can’t be sunrise, short of the Dallas Sunrise
Bulletin.’ It’s a catchy jingle."
"Enough!"
#
We gather around the smoking crater. A red sports car wheels into the parking lot.
It’s Kyle Coburn, assistant managing editor for suburban bureaus. He had come all the
way from downtown, presumably to make sure Guy’s neurotic enthusiasm and energy
actually translate into useable copy. He mills about with us, hands shoved in his pockets,
peering down into the fire and brimstone.
"What’s this about?" he asks.
I also look over the lip of the flaming crater. A breeze momentarily clears away
the smoke, revealing an almost forgotten dream from junior high.
I launch a homemade rocket, but it is not stable. My creation falls to earth in
flames, resembling a fireplace log wrapped in burning newspaper. This occurs on a hill
behind my house. There should be no hill here, only a vacant field. Yet there it is. And
over the top comes a platoon of soldiers, ready to take the hill. They are streaming over it,
engaged in battle. Explosions! Gun fire! War! I can hardly believe it. All this initiated by
the crash of my harmless homemade rocket.
#
- 53
"Looks like a bomb to me," says Chandler, who’s decided to check out the scene
after all.
Guy shoves up behind me, almost knocking me into the flaming pit. "Maybe it’s a
piece of space junk. Wow, what a story! Ringo, I want you to get over to North Hills
Mall, get some reaction from the shoppers.”
“I thought I was supposed to look for Christians.”
“Do both. Kill two birds with one stone. And we need someone to go up to the
Fast Lane. Mark?"
"You don't have a clue about what's going on here, do you?" I ask. “This is the
conclusion of time. I’ve seen all of this before, in my dreams.”
"Eh, what's that?" Kyle asks, cocking an ear toward me.
"It’s what I’ve been trying to tell Guy. This shouldn’t be real. And yet it is.
Somehow my dreams are being transmitted into strange happenings, into reality. The
soldiers will be here any moment. We should get inside."
“This is great,” Kyle declares. He turns to Guy. “What do you think about a firstperson conclusion of time feature?”
Guy nods with great enthusiasm. “We could illustrate with publicity stills from
‘The Abandoned Ones,’” he suggests, “maybe the scene of the abortionists, Democrats
and Catholics lining up to get 666 tattooed on their foreheads.”
“I’m seeing a definite first-person piece,” Kyle says. “We’ll headline it ‘Crazed
Dreams: Phantasms of a Psychotic Son.’ Mark, have you ever been treated for a mental
illness?”
“What?”
“Ha ha, just kidding. But it would make it better.”
“Yes, I see it,” Guy says. “A whole spectral special section with creative
interpretations of the clock. We’ll call it ‘A Clock in the Air.’ ”
“Yes, the title of a significant book,” Kyle remarks. “In fact, Libby has already
decided we’ll be distributing a free copy to each member of the news staff.”
“And for art we could do a picture of a man in bed with a clock in the sky outside
his window.”
“But we need a good hook, one filled with personal pathos. Mark, didn’t you have
a beautiful, talented girlfriend with a bright future who died a tragic and senseless
death?”
“Not me,” I say. “You have me confused with one of your downtown writers. Ty
Maial. I believe he won an award for that one.”
“I could have sworn that was you.”
“I don’t win awards.”
“Don’t be so defensive,” Guy says. “There’s no rule that says the Register can’t
have more than one reporter with a beautiful, dead girlfriend.”
“Or maybe,” Kyle adds, “you could befriend a spunky, old homeless person, then
one morning find him frozen by the side of the road in the rain, his faithful dog by his
side.”
Before I can explain that he is still thinking of Ty (who got an award for that
story, too), the soldiers begin streaming over the hill.
"It's the Sunrise Bulletin," Guy says. "Fall back to the bureau!"
#
- 54
Machine gun fire strafes the front of the strip center, showering the sidewalk in
white Venetian plaster and plate glass. Guy is the first inside, huddled behind a wall of
burlap sand bags that has suddenly appeared in the middle of the newsroom. He hands
each of us a green Army helmet and an AK-47.
"You know, Guy,” Kyle says, “I always knew someday I'd win a Pulitzer. I just
didn't expect it to happen so soon."
"Don't you think this is all a little odd?" I ask. "Don't you see something missing
from this picture?"
“Right you are,” Kyle says. “We should design a bureau flag.”
Another round of gunfire tears into the ceiling tiles, raining down white dust and
broken florescent lighting. Kyle taps Guy on the arm. “You know, these special effects
would make a nice photo essay in the Crossroads of Time section.”
“You mean Crossroads in the Air,” Guy says.
“But they’re really shooting at us,” I say. “With real bullets.”
“Don’t be frightened, this is normal,” Kyle remarks. “You’ve never been through
a newspaper war before.”
“A newspaper war? We don’t have any competition, at least not financial. We’ve
got the 30 percent government subsidy.”
Another round of gunfire into the ceiling tiles coats us in a fine white dust.
“Don’t be naïve,” Kyle says. “It’s not like we’re a family farm.”
“Why do you all say that? It’s exactly the same. The program is even
administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.”
"Don’t worry,” Guy says, “the Sunrise Bullshit will never take this bureau."
Then he turns to me, and I realize his face had changed. His jaw had widened and
a long scar stretches across his right cheek. He has become Talking G.I. Joe.
"Enemy planes, hit the dirt!" Guy commands in a scratchy, mechanical tone, a
giant pull string dangling from his larynx. "They been playing hit and run with us all over
the eastern front, trying to establish a beachhead in the Mid-Cities, maybe Arlington. But
we're going to stop them - right here, right now. We’re going to kick them in the craw."
Then he suddenly rises to his feet and removes his helmet.
"Wait, what am I doing?" he asks. "I almost forgot about the certificates of
achievement."
#
His face again returned to normalcy, Guy brings us all back to his office. He has
us arrange the chairs in three rows, like a classroom. He opens his desk drawer and pulled
out a stack of certificates.
"What's this for, Guy?" asks Bessie, the grandmotherly writer of the police
blotter. This is Bessie’s first newspaper job out of journalism school, which she finished
last year at age 65.
"OK, picture this. It's a Sunday, almost noon. You realize you have a math test on
Tuesday for a class in which you have done no work."
"I'm terrible at math," Chandler says.
"Of course, you're all terrible at math. That’s why you're newspaper reporters."
That gets a good laugh.
- 55
"But it occurs to you that you still have time to cram on Sunday afternoon and
ready yourself for the test. And this strategy must have worked. For the next thing you
know, you are gathering in my office - I mean, your classroom - to receive your honors."
A round of applause briefly overshadows the gunfire.
This too is one of my dreams. But it is hard to focus because I know I am to be
one of the first to receive this award. This is s a problem because I am no longer wearing
a shirt.
How did this occur? All I know is this is an exact replay of my dream.
While Guy flips through the certificates, Bessie regales the group with a sort of
acceptance speech: the tale of her first police story.
"So anyway, the policemen is taking her statement and it doesn’t sound right to
him. He says `uh, so what, you’re just sleeping with this guy?’ And she says, ‘yeah, I
guess,’ or something. And the cop says `well, you sleeping with any other guys?’ And the
girl says `oh, only six or seven?’ And he says, "well, what are you, a whore?'"
We are amazed to hear the grandmotherly Bessie utter the word "whore," so
amazed in fact that no one appears to notice that I am shirtless. Still, it is only a matter of
time. What to do? I try to think of some way to slip out unnoticed. But why? It seems I
am holding a sweaty shirt with an undershirt inside it. The outer shirt is too filthy to put
on, but for some reason I decide the undershirt will be acceptable. So as Guy called out
the names of the certificate winners, I hastily struggle back into the undershirt.
"And you wouldn’t believe it,” Bessie continues, “but the officer wrote it down
just like that, as straightforward as could be. He wrote: `I asked her if she was a whore,
and the complainant called me a bastard and starting crying. Then we left the residence.’
He wrote it just like that. So I wrote it just like that, I thought that’s what I was supposed
to do. It was an official police report. And then again, right in the middle of the
newsroom, Owen said out loud `Bessie, I thought you were such a nice lady when I hired
you, but I guess I was wrong. You are a potty mouth.’”
Everyone laughs, and Bessie smiles.
“Well, I was just mortified. I couldn’t imagine why he was saying such a thing to
me. I said ‘Owen, what are you talking about?’ I couldn’t imagine what he meant. Then
he told me’’ -- she started to laugh, but stifled herself -- ``he said `This is a family paper,
Bessie. We can’t have all this potty talk.’’’
"Owen was pretty funny,’’ Chandler agrees.
``I hated it when they sent him to the Austin bureau,” Bessie says. “I know it was
a good career move for him, but I really miss him.’’
#
The certificate is very nice. I’ve got it hanging inside, over my dresser. It’s real
sheepskin, stamped with a 14k gold foil seal. I don't know where it came from. I don’t
specifically remember dreaming of being naked in a math class; however, I’m told naked
dreams are rather common. My therapists and dental psychiatrists attributed the incident
to unresolved childhood issues, perhaps a sense of inferiority. This is common in Dream
Anxiety Disorder.
What’s that? Why yes, it is a real disorder. I am a genuine neurotic. I diagnosed
myself after a trip to the Strangers Rest Public Library, where I discovered my troubled
self in a decrepit copy of the American Psychiatric Association’s “Diagnostic and 
- 56
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.” (Apparently I am not the only person in
Strangers Rest who is engaging in do-it-yourself psychoanalysis.)
Features of Dream Anxiety Disorder (aka Nightmare Disorder) include:
 Frequent association with artistic ability.
 Personality patterns of distrustfulness, alienation, estrangement and oversensitivity.
 Schizoid or borderline personality traits.
Does that not sound like me? By no means is Dream Anxiety Disorder my only
mental condition, either. Turns out I have various features from eight to 10 other
recognized psychiatric conditions. I don’t have enough features in any one disorder to
meet the criteria for a full diagnosis. But if you put them all together they add up to a
whole new condition, which I call Post-Modern Prophet Disorder (aka “Leach’s
Syndrome”). I will be sending the American Psychiatric Association a letter requesting
that this newly identified illness be added to the next edition of the DSM.
#
DIAGNOSTIC CRITERIA FOR POST MODERN PROPHET DISORDER
A. Characteristic symptoms: Four (or more) of the following, each present for a
significant portion of time during a 1-month period (or less if successfully treated or the
world comes to an end):
 Detachment from subject’s own mental processes or body, as if an outside
observer.
 Feeling like an automaton or as if in a dream.
 Restlessness, vigilance and scanning.
 Feeling keyed up, on edge.
 Exaggerated startle response.
 Difficulty concentrating or “mind going blank” because of anxiety.
 Irritability.
 Psychomotor agitation expressed in pacing or as an inability to sit still.
 Recurrent thoughts of death, often accompanied by the belief that subject or
others would be better off dead.
 Themes of personal inadequacy, guilt, deserved punishment and death.
 Feelings of worthlessness or excessive or inappropriate guilt, which may be
delusional.
 Diminished ability to think or indecisiveness.
B. Obsessional dysfunction: For a significant portion of the time since the onset of
the disturbance, experiences obsessions which are recurrent and include persistent ideas,
thoughts, impulses or images that are intrusive and senseless (ex: having recurring
blasphemous thoughts) and subject attempts to ignore or suppress with another thought or
action. These obsessions are a product of subject’s own mind and are not related to guilty
thoughts in the presence of a major depression.
C. Depressive Episode: Accompanied by low energy and fatigue, low selfesteem, poor concentration and feelings of hopelessness.
D. Dream-based alien dysfunction: Dreams of being a robot or an extraterrestrial
or dead. (Example, a dream by Mark Leach from the night of June 5/6, 2005: I am renting
a house, which I share with a roommate. On my way to work, crossing the Hulen Street
bridge. Heavy fog. I just make out cars sliding, colliding ahead. I put on the brakes, but I 
- 57
can’t see anything. I begin honking the horn so other cars will know I am here. Then all
goes white, lost in total fog. Next I find myself inexplicably standing outside the garage
of my rented house. I punch in the access code, and the automatic garage door rises. My
roommate’s car is here, but not mine. Inside the house, a party is under way. Some of my
relatives are here. So are some friends. Someone – maybe my roommate – explains what
has occurred: I am actually a carbon copy of the original Mark Leach, who was killed on
the bridge in the fog. I don’t feel like a copy; however, that is because I have all of the
memories of the original. I am an exact copy. Then my roommate and I look outside. We
realize somehow that all of the cars are gone now. A world without cars. Could this be a
world of carbon copies, a world without original people? So we walk outside, look at the
next door neighbor’s home. They have a swimming pool, but it’s in the front yard. And
on the front walk next to the pool is a three-wheeled, robotic pool cleaner. This is a
troubling sight, for I see the robot as part of a vast conspiracy to eliminate the original
people of the world and replace them with carbon copies. I persuade my roommate to
help me flip this robot onto its head. We run away, and I am laughing. Even when I see
that the homeowners are watching me through the picture window, I am still laughing.
But my roommate doesn’t find it so funny. He tells me this is bad. We’ll have to pay for
the damages.)
E. Anxiety: Accompanied by irritability, brooding or obsessive rumination.
F. Persecutory delusions: Accompanied by sense of a moral transgression or
some personal inadequacy.
G. Flight of ideas: Accompanied by subjective experience that thoughts are
racing.
H. Distractibility: Attention is too easily drawn to unimportant or irrelevant
external stimuli.
I. Lability: Rapid shifts to anger or depression.
#
The shooting continues. Guy attempts to rally the staff, but they are busy packing
themselves into the break room. Bessie is baking a batch of chocolate chip cookies in the
microwave.
I quietly slip out the back door, where I find Cowboy Roy waiting in the
Bevomobile, the motor running.
"Can we get out of here now?" he asks. "Those reporters are crazy. Don’t they
know they’re being shot at? With real bullets?"
“Let’s go,” I say. “I’ll fill you in after we’re out of range.”
Roy drives cautiously down the alley, the sound of gunfire echoing all around us.
I hear a siren coming from the freeway, and I turn around just in time to see a fire truck
fly by. Roy is about to ease the Bevomobile onto Bedford-Euless Road when Guy comes
running around the front corner of the shopping center.
"Go!” I shout, but Guy is too fast. He throws himself over the trunk, sliding into a
heap in the back seat.
"Follow that fire engine," he commands. "That's a story in progress."
"Chasing fire trucks is against the law," I say, but Roy is already caught up in the
moment. He guns the old V-8, aiming the longhorn-ornamented hood for the freeway onramp. I look back in time to see the reporters streaming outside to enjoy a parking lot 
- 58
garden party (apparently the inter-newspaper shooting is over). Bessie is passing around a
plate of cookies.
"Ah, road trip," Guy says. "Good times. We should pick up some beer on the way
out of town. Some other stuff, too. I know a guy who can help us score some Piney
Woods spore and -- "
"You know, it does feel like we are on a trip to a faraway land," Roy says, "maybe
Africa or South America. Reminds me of the night sea journey in my war movie, 'Shores
of Tripoli.'"
"We'll have to travel across the ocean by boat," Guy says.
That assumes we even make it to the city limits. It is proving to be all Roy can
manage to navigate the highway south toward downtown Fort Worth. He straddles two
lanes as we approach a trailer that bears a rocket-shaped craft resembling the Blue Flame
rocket car.
"I know what this is,” Guy tells us. "This is a mini submarine, which Princess
Diane is going to use -- or used. Isn't she dead?"
I can't remember, either.
"Anyway, I do know it was designed so she could anonymously travel the
oceans,” he says. “We must be heading in the right direction."
#
Here’s one way the world ends: You are part of a group on a river tour, traveling
in canoes. You are nearing the destination. The slow moving river flows through a stone
canyon which centuries ago had been carved into a city. It is incredible, the ruins of an
ancient civilization. On the right you see a set of steps lined with large pots -- perhaps
waist height -- and it's all carved from the stone walls of the canyon. Your sons are with
you, so you direct their attention to this incredible site. So perfect, it reminds you of the
way Disney would build a set of ruins. Then on the left you see a flat area, apparently a
stage. At the rear of this stage is a stand of palm trees and in the trees is a flock of red,
tropical birds. There are no people yet, and you are a bit apprehensive. Will the locals be
friendly?
You spot a man and see that he is coming out of a building. He is wearing a pith
helmet and long khaki shorts, like a British explorer. As you approach him, you see other
people and realize this is an archeological camp and the man is a scientist. You arrive
with your group at the camp, and you see that the man and his wife run it. Both are
archeologists. You are part of a group of three people. You are a journalist, along to
document the expedition. But when it comes time for introductions, the woman who
leads your group introduces you as a scientist, too. So you are a combination
scientist/writer.
A group of about 10 children come rushing in, and you smile and say hi. You
realize at this point that your sons and wife are still back in Strangers Rest, a half a world
away. It is evening as you and the group enter the camp's main building, where you hold
a one-page handout on the camp or the expedition – you’re not sure which. You find a
pencil and begin to write a letter home on the back of the paper. You know there's not
much to say yet, but you decide to let Allison know you arrived safely and what
happened on the journey.
The next morning, you sit outside in an open-air Jeep and look at the big, azure
sky. It will be a bright and sunny day. You realize it will be a hot day, too. In fact, Jack 
- 59
Bryson walks up to the Jeep and tells you the temperature will probably rise 20 degrees in
the course of the day.
"It reminds me of Texas," you comment.
You will need sun block and a hat. But you forgot to pack those items. And you
forgot to bring any cash. You have your credit cards, but not a single dollar. A policeman
approaches, outfitted in khaki shirt and shorts like you'd see on a policeman in South
Africa, Australia or some other place with British colonial influences.
“No problem, sir,” he assures you in an official-sounding accent. “You can
purchase anything you need in the town.”
You look up the road and, sure enough, there is a town. The camp is just one of
many buildings. Someone from the camp drives you to the end of a row of buildings that
lines one side of the street. On the return trip, you look in the storefronts, but you don't go
in because you haven't resolved the money issue. You notice that one business -- a donut
shop, perhaps -- has a Visa sticker on the window. Perhaps you can get money here, then
buy your supplies.
You stop again at the camp, the situation still unresolved. Children are playing.
You see your bag on the ground. One of the children is holding a sort of mummified
snake with a small, living snake inside. The little snake is slithering around, making it
appear that the boy is holding a mass of living reptiles. Then you notice a snake in your
bag. It is black with tiny white spots or dots. You kick at it, trying to get it to leave. But
somehow you are just filling the bag with sand, dry desert sand. You almost bury it. After
you are sure the snake is gone, you reach into the sand and pull out a pad of paper. A boy
shoves you from behind and laughs. You are a bit scared, still nervous and worried about
the snake. But you don't want him to know this. So you tell the boy he shouldn't push you
from behind.
“You’ll hurt my back,” you warn him.
He says he is sorry.
#
Guy and Kyle do not choose to let me tell our readership of this Vision, my
Incredible Revelation. Indeed, they determine that not even my three to five inches is
required.
“You should go home,” Guy tells me. “Go home and get some rest.”
“But you saw it,” I protest. “You saw Princess Di’s submarine.”
“A submarine on a trailer on the highway. Interesting, but hardly proof of the
conclusion of time.”
“And what about the river trip?”
“Mark, we’re doing you a favor,” Kyle says. “We’re your friends. We know what
you’re going through. I myself see a dental psychiatrist every Wednesday and brush with
Mentine toothpaste every day.”
“Me too,” Guy says. “My therapist says they should just pump Fluoride9 straight
into the water supply. When I don’t get it, I start to receive mind messages from the
Fourth Hardness.”
“Me too. After a few days, my brain is just riddled with CGODMs.”
“What are you two talking about?” I ask.
"CGODMs,” Kyle says. “Cubical Genetic Observation and Direction Machines.
They’re little cubes about two millimeters in diameter.”
- 60
“They are extraterrestrial-enhanced neural CPUs implanted into your brain by
autonomous nanobots,” Guy adds. “They’re driven by a miniature positioning current
that manages or imitates the actions inside a sentient neural network with miniature
communicators that reproduce mind procedures or engendering prototypes.”
“I didn’t realize you were part of the Global Airtime Cabal, too.”
“Three years now. I’m up to Dark Echelon clearance. How about you?”
“No, I’m still new to the Society of the Purple Sunset.”
Arrg. The Society of the Purple Sunset is an annoying onbeam role-playing game,
sort of a Prisons & Serpents meets Celebrity Hike. The Sunsetters, as they like to call
themselves, discuss the intricacies of their little fictional universe ad nausea, sometimes
for hours. They even have conventions where they dress up like their favorite game
characters. Ever since Libby started playing (she selected for herself the role of High
Priestess, of course), “Doing the Sunset” has become the latest stylish pursuit among the
editors at the Register.
Suddenly Kyle remembers I am still here and looks my way. “You see, Mark, the
Global Airtime Cabal got it all started in 1947. That’s when they used the Corpus Christi
Project to launch the first Vision-O-Sonde, a tiny pale sphere connected to a weather
balloon. It is an extremely efficient converter of psychic energy into ethericom matter.”
“And the worst is FEM,” Guy adds. “Fatal Ethericom Matter, which threatens life
at the 200 to 500 MHz frequencies.”
“Brain management. The scientists prefer to call it ‘disposition modification,’ but
unadulterated brain management is really what these crazed ideologues are up to.”
“Did they ever put you in the brain-changing stool?”
“Oh man, it was terrible. The pre-ecstasy condition was pleasant enough, but the
programming was unendurable.”
“They’ve sent a lot of poor kids down that subway. They simply burned up, and
the Wise Ones watched it all on their cathode ray tubes. Imagine it: A functioning time
subway of death.”
“I heard about this one guy, they put him in the stool and told him to think about
Godzilla. And when the subway doors slid open out stepped this sort of psychic beast --”
“The Fiend of the Unconscious.”
“Yes. I heard everyone who was onbeam at the time went into a raging terror. The
way I heard it they immediately switched off the transducer, but not before the creature
ate several people and pieces of computer hardware.”
“You heard it exactly right. I saw it all.”
“You were onbeam that day?”
“It happened just after I became a Journeyman. When I came onbeam, the time
whirlpool was already bolted on to the 1942 test. It created a self-sustaining ethericom
tetrahedron, exactly as posited by Dr. Adolfo Morel in his famous time equations, and
that’s how the monster formed. They actually had to time shift back to the mothballed
U.S.S. Ethan Allen Hitchcock, which was already flooded with FEM, and switch off the
main reactor. A lot of people thought they went too far on that one.”
“So, uh – you guys think you’re maybe being controlled by the Secret
Government or something?” I ask. I try to sound genuine, but Kyle and Guy are not
fooled. Apparently they had momentarily forgotten about me, for now they look upon me
with pained expressions reeking of condescension for the non-playing nonbeliever.
- 61
“Go home,” Guy repeats. “Drink some whiskey, pop some pills. Do whatever you
have to do.”
Kyle nods. “Get unconscious.”
#
Get unconscious. For me, that is not a relaxing state. Journeying through the Land
of the Dead is exhausting work. Consider this dialogue between two famous movie
reviewers, a bit of tainted celluloid that The Stranger unveiled for me as part of his career
retrospective at the Armageddon Drive-in.
#
Charlie: Enough anal probing. Now let’s try sci-fi Roman chariot racing! Yea!
Young idea. The Deity may communicate with man through ancient dreams.
Elmo: Mark Leach as the Christ? Interesting concept, but it goes bad so quickly.
Charlie: Let’s roll the clip.
#
The husband popped his head out of the dark pantry and asked of his wife
“where’s the bread?”
“There is no bread,” she replied. “We have no money for bread.”
“But how can that be? Look around us. Wealth everywhere. A leather sofa here, a
swimming pool there, berber carpet everywhere. What have you done with the bread?”
“You don’t make enough money to allow me to live in the style to which I
deserve to become accustomed. So how can you expect me to buy bread?”
“I’ll starve if you don’t give me some bread.”
“Husbands do not live by bread alone,” she said. Then she retrieved a knife from
the cupboard and motioned for her husband to place his hand on a scarred wooden cutting
board.
“Are you crazy?” he asked. “It’ll hurt!”
“Crybaby.”
Shrugging, the husband relented and she cut off his right hand.
“Why, that didn’t hurt at all,” the husband said. “Like cutting your hair or finger
nails.”
“That’s because you are already dead,” she explained, then handed him his
severed hand on an orange Fiesta platter. “Eat this.”
“Mmmm, that’s good cadaver,” he said.
“Yes, and you should try the wine,” The wife hoisted a small glass of red covertly
retrieved from the oozing stump of her husband’s wrist. “A rather disappointing rioja
with delusions of mystical revelations.”
“Now you’ve gone too far,” the husband roared. “There’s no call for religious
persecution. Why do you want to make me suffer?”
“Because it is only through suffering that we can find our redemption.” Then she
dug out a set of kebob skewers from the back of a drawer and nailed her husband to the
pantry door, bread crumbs and wine spilling from his stigmata.
Over the husband’s head, the wife tacked a recipe card upon which she’d written
“King of the Losers, signed wife.” She dotted the “ i” in wife with a smiley-faced heart.
#
- 62
Elmo: Yes, it comes off somehow feeling true. A touching vision, angels listening
to the words, lost in warm globs of ectoplasm. The knowledge of that idea that The Deity
would say –
Charlie: Well, let's think about this. A talking deity? Not necessarily funny. Such
a film might not sell.
Elmo: Instead, perhaps we should consider banjos, plotting murder, enjoying
sodomy. Buttered DNA delivery organs inserted into naughty places.
Charlie: Now that’s funny.
Elmo: Those were the desires of Mark in his youth. We know from The
Stranger’s movies that he’s always liked young girl toes dipped in wet sexuality.
#
The red diode flashes on the answering machine. I hit the play button; it is Jack.
“What the fuck. Ha ha. I called your work. That old biddy grandma answered. She
said ‘oh Mark? He went home. He wasn’t feeling well.’ I told her ‘yeah, ‘cause he’s on
chocolate mysticism.’ Ha ha. She can suck my -- sorry, that was really inappropriate. Just
kidding. I’m not really like this, you know that. You bring it out in me. You make me this
way. My freshman year in college I was going to be a preacher. ORU, 900-foot Jesus.
Talk about being well hung. Ha ha. Ah no, I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it. Look, man -- get
some rest. Get yourself straight. Then call me. Tonight we let the sleek dog run.”
Next, a transmission from the superego.
“Mark, this is your mother. I just wanted to see if you want to come over for
dinner tonight. With Allison and the boys gone, you probably don’t feel like fixing
something just for yourself. You can’t eat pizza every night, you know. I’ve laid a roast
out to thaw, but your father and I can’t eat it all by ourselves. You can bring your clothes
over and spend the night. Or you can stay the whole time they’re gone. It’ll be like a
slumber party. So I’ll talk to you later.”
The other two messages are from Allison. For my convenience, she’d left the
phone number for the beach house on a pad next to the phone.
“Where’ve you been?” she asks. “I’ve been calling since last night.”
“I went out with Jack,” I lie.
“Figures. Did you get any sleep?”
“Not till this afternoon. I had to go into work to cover the clock story. Could you
see it there?”
"Of course not. I'm here with my parents."
I want to tell her about my Incredible Revelation, about everything that had been
happening. But I hear a commotion in the background, one of our sons demanding ice
cream.
“I told you it’s too late for that,” Allison says. “Go to bed now!”
“What’s happening?”
“It’s my family. They keep doing all these great things for the boys, giving them
everything they want. But I’m the one who has to be the bad guy. I have to make them go
to bed, I’m the one who has to be the bad one after everyone spoils them.”
She lays down the phone, and I hear footsteps and crying. “I told you to go to
bed,” she says. “I’m so sick of this. Why can’t anyone help me out here?”
I wait a moment, and she returns to the phone.
“I’ve got to go,” she says. “Call me later.”
- 63
“OK, I’ll call you in the morning.”
But she doesn’t hear me. “Go to bed!”
The line goes dead.
#
No sign of The Deity in that apocalypse. Perhaps my trouble is that I don't pray
anymore. It isn’t that I don’t believe in The Deity. Rather, it’s just that praying to Him no
longer seems relevant. Why? I have constructed a possible answer by paraphrasing
Walker Percy:
The central query is not does the Death and Resurrection remain germane, but
rather this – Is the sentient being experiencing a stormy reorganization of its awareness
which does not currently permit it to seize understanding of the Death and Resurrection?
Pretty.
But what is the nature of this reorganization? The answer comes in the form of a
voice of dire warning from the kitchen. “Don’t answer it! It’s him! Call the police!”
This is Allison’s voice. But it can’t be her; she is still in Maine. And then through
the front door, I see a figure silhouetted in the oval of etched glass. I know this person. I
know him all too well.
The Stranger has arrived.
- 64
Here’s one way the world ends: Inside my house at night.
Allison warns of a threatening stranger who has visited recently and will return.
“We must beware,” she says.
There is a knock at the door.
“Don’t answer it!” she says. “It’s him! Call the police!”
I go to the door, look out the window. But there is no danger. Just an old man in a
thick cable knit cardigan sweater, cleaning a red potato. The man is stoop-shouldered and
white-haired. I let him in.
We talk a bit, I don’t remember about what. But it soon dawns on me: He is me.
Did my wife know his identity? Yes, he had visited once before, but I was not home.
So this old man is the threatening stranger. Why does she fear him?
“How did you come to be in this peculiar situation?” I ask him. “How did it
happen?”
Turns out there was some sort of court action and a mental/emotional breakdown.
He – “I” -- had held in his emotions too long, trying to look normal at home and at work.
But now this future version of me has lost everything. He has no wife and only a
menial job. Still, I sense that people might be able to like him. At least I like him.
The man says is going to leave now. He has to get back to his job. My wife is
ecstatic. But I don’t want him to go.
“No, you can’t leave. We were meant to be together. We are one.”
The man’s boss shows up, wanting him back at work in the restaurant kitchen. He
wants him to fix those potatoes.
“No, we quit,” I say.
The old me can’t believe I just quit on his behalf.
“What can we do? To get a decent job, we need a doctorate.”
I know he is just feeling a little pessimistic. So I say “OK, so we’ll get a
doctorate together.”
Again, I tell the boss that he is quitting. He fills out a form, presumably for the old
man’s final paycheck. All the while he keeps one eye on us. I am very excited about this
development.
“We’re going to be the world’s first two bodied man,” I tell my other, older half.
“But what about women?” he asks. “We’ll never get one.”
I look at this gentle man and smile.
“Are you kidding? They’re going to love us.”
#
“They hate us! Hurry, let me in! They’re right on my heels!”
The Stranger bolts past me, running through the den toward the kitchen, flipping
off lights as he goes, plunging the house into the protective anonymity of night.
“So they can’t see us,” he explains.
I stand bewildered in the open doorway, looking out toward the street where he’s
parked his car - a red hot rod, the Beach Boy’s little deuce coupe. And something else.
The street light is out, a first for our perfectly functioning neighborhood. But there
is enough of a moon that I can see it, gliding slowly past like a giant bat. It is the pursuer
– the black sedan, the dreamed car of death.
“For goodness sake, shut the door,” he hisses. “They have night vision scopes.”
- 65
“I’ve seen that car before,” I say.
“Of course you’ve seen it before. It’s registered to Ozona International, part of
their black op’s street theater troupe, the guerrilla drive-in movies. Can you please shut
the door?”
#
“They’ve been blocking me for weeks,” he continues, “as I walk or drive about.”
“The street theater troupe?”
“The perps, the disinfo agents. These incidents have been increasing dramatically,
several every day, either someone slipping ahead of me at the ATM or the supermarket
checkout or parking in unanticipated places in parking lots.”
He fills a green glass with chilled water from a lighted recess in the refrigerator
door, hand encased in an emerald glow. Very Hitchcock-esque.
“It’s not normal interactions,” he explains. “I’m talking about incidents that occur
far more often than one would attribute to mere chance. Imagine it: cars speeding up to
stop signs just ahead of you, then braking part way into the intersection. And meanwhile,
you find other cars cooperating in the theatrical attack, blocking your progress,
particularly in shopping malls. That’s their favorite place. Oh yes, they’re definitely after
me.”
He goes back to the front door and cautiously stares out the oval of etched glass.
“Mind control,” he continues. “I’m one of their unwilling test subjects. It started
in the 1950s with MKULTRA, the CIA’s behavior modification program. That was
understandably limited in scope. But now they’re using onbeam avenues, taking it
worldwide. Random individuals are secretly chosen for covert behavior, thought and
perception control via onbeam avenues and other advanced technologies.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“They’re mostly unknown to the average scientist who isn’t part of the New
World Order’s mind control conspiracy. These technologies can’t be repeated, prevented
or even revealed using current market technologies. Onbeam systems have been
infiltrated with covert backdoor access points, where the black ops agents use Fluoride9
to gain entrance to the brain’s unconscious processing centers. Those of us who are
victims of this mind control have found our attempts to fight the conspiracy regularly
thwarted by technology that can penetrate EM and acoustic shielding, move objects at a
distance, pull legs out from under people at a distance, propel a moving car sideways,
make objects disappear and reappear in a new location, apply enough force to a building
that it will make snapping noises, especially at night as you are just falling asleep, make
people burp or pass gas when they least expect it, usually in public places around a lot of
people, cause consumer appliances to fail shortly after the expiration of the warranty and
give people sunburns on cloudy days.”
“Well, the sunburn’s not so strange. That’s happened to me plenty of times. And
the rest could be coincidences.”
He stares at me, a glint of brimstone in his eyes.
“This isn’t about normal events.”
“OK.”
“It’s like when you see a natural paranormal effect, but it happens in
circumstances in which the effect can only be explained as possessing a deliberate
signature of precise causal intent. I’ve seen full levitation, possibly utilizing anti-gravity 
- 66
propulsion devices discovered on UFOs studied in Area 51. I mean, that much is real.
You've seen it in the sky, the clock – the end of time. Right?"
"Right.”
"But it’s the onbeam mind control that’s the most difficult to fight. Psychotronic
manipulation, silent sound, sub-vocalized speech, direct skull transmissions, neuroelectromagnetic ruination - all variations on a theme of utilizing remote induction pain
and creating artificial mental disorders. And they do it in a way that to a disinterested
party it appears that the victim is imagining things. It’s all part of the design to harass the
experimental subject.”
“But why you? Why do you think they want to experiment on you?”
“They want my dreams, of course. Our dreams. They want the Nova Effect.”
“What’s that?”
“It’s part of a massive conspiracy by the secret government to scramble all of the
text of the galaxy into a swirling chaos, which they can employ via flesh-coated Markov
chains to manipulate the people of Earth as well as a couple of outlying humanoid
planets. When they take the Nova Effect live they’ll be able to hook us up to the viral
DNA dream phone, call anytime it suits their purpose. Your time will come, young Mark.
And when it does, try explaining it to people you know and see how many believe it is
intentional. ‘Oh, listen to that Mark go on,’ they’ll say. ‘He has lots to say. And yet, no
answers to our questions. At least no satisfying, rational answers.’ It soon becomes clear
to them that you don’t have a clue as to why you are here. You claim no insights into the
true nature of the strange happenings afoot in the waking world. Clearly, there is no point
in questioning you about real world events. That’s what you’re thinking, right?”
“I didn’t say that.”
“Surely you and I could not be the two-bodied man of the Vision. No, I am
merely a creation of nocturnal imagination, a visitor from the Land of the Dead.”
And that’s when he spots the cameraman.
“Cut!” The Stranger flips on the kitchen light and opens the back door, beckoning
the man into the light.
“That camera’s got a 3,000 to 1 dreamscopic zoom,” The Stranger says, “and yet
you still find it necessary to invade the Cinematic Reality Zone in order to get the shot.
Why is that?”
A half dozen crew members slowly emerge from the shadows, trailing thick black
cables, portable lights, reflective panels and microphones on the end of long aluminum
poles. They gather in the kitchen as the cameraman absently fiddles with a black rubber
lens hood. “Depth of field was all wrong,” he explains. “He was going two dimensional
again.”
The Stranger nods sympathetically. “It’s understandable. Cinematic technology
can’t be expected to always keep up with the full depth of visionary transformation.”
“You’re making a movie about me?” I ask.
“Not you – us! The two-bodied man. Working title: ‘Strangers Rest.’” The
Stranger retrieves a small radio from his pocket. He extends the antennae and puts his
mouth to the speaker.
“OK everybody, it’s a wrap. Nice work. Go back to the church, get some sleep.
We’ll meet in the sanctuary at oh six hundred for the rushes.”
#
- 67
The Stranger doesn’t look much like the old man in my dream.
No cardigan sweater, no red potato. He’s not stoop-shouldered or white-haired,
either. This Stranger has arrived in my waking world life on the red eye flight from the
soulless cool terrain of Burial Chamber, Calif., looking young and hip in Spanish
wraparound sunglasses and vintage ‘50s Hawaiian shirt with a vaguely obscene hula
dancer print. He clearly hasn’t been peeling potatoes or doing any other restaurant work,
either. His nails are freshly manicured, quite the contrast to my own ragged cuticles and
split nails. (When did I start letting myself go like this?)
His head is closely shaved, so I cannot ascertain if he is balding or going gray.
Interesting, this uncertainty actually makes him look young and vibrant – younger and
more vibrant than me. Even his face seems more youthful than mine, more robust and
tan. It is as if I am the old man. I am The Stranger, and The Stranger is me.
“You told your editors of your incredible revelation?” he asks.
I nod. “They didn’t even want a three-inch feed.”
“It is because they are among the Comatose Ones. By tomorrow, the Clock in the
Air will just be another weather phenomenon, entertaining but not meaningful.”
“So I should just drop it?”
“Not at all. Write of strange happenings, of course. That is your destiny.”
“My destiny?”
“And you must also accompany Jack on a journey. Tonight. A journey crossing
the threshold into the unknown. We’ve got to get this show on the road.”
“We’ll have a great talk, I’m sure.”
“Yes. But don’t bother with newsprint. Using the Register, using any newspaper,
to make your witness is useless. To announce the appearance of the Clock in the Air as a
visual rumor of the Deity, as a prophetic call to overcome the falsity of the contemporary
in a flood of visions into the waking world, as a declaration that the Deity is now primed
to incarnate not just in one man but all mankind – well, that is like unveiling a new
wagon wheel design at the Horse and Buggy Convention of 1910.”
I attempt a lame defense of the Register. “It’s a pretty good paper.”
“Quality is not the issue. People simply do not believe what they read in
newspapers anymore.”
“I hope that’s not true. It’s how I make a living. It’s my career.”
“You need a new career, and you’ll get one soon enough. You’ll have no choice.
Contemplate the fundamental strangeness of the aerial clock. We should not imagine the
customary logical techniques of clarification will be at all sufficient. The visual rumors
first come into view in outer space so that one and all shall observe them. They strike a
chord, causing us to recall our individual spirit and our individual totality.”
“Because people don’t believe what they read in newspapers anymore?”
“Exactly. But they do believe what they see at the movies.”
#
Elmo: “Next Year at Marienbad” is a visually stunning film, featuring some of the
most beautiful celluloid I have ever viewed. Technically speaking, let’s talk about how
you achieved these results.
Stranger: My experiences are quite similar to those described by Brian De Palma
in an interview he gave for his cinematic masterpiece, “Sisters.” Make no mistake; I am a
great fan of Alain Resnais. “Hiroshima Mon Amour” and “Last Year at Marienbad” are 
- 68
among my favorite films of all time. But in many ways De Palma was my true inspiration
for “Next Year at Marienbad,” especially the two-bodied protagonist concept. Believe it
or not, we filmed it all in just six weeks. And we didn’t go all California, either. We used
broadcast-quality personnel, a GOTWM (General Organization of Transmission Workers
and Machinists) team. In no way do they resemble a Burial Chamber team, but they labor
intensely and cheaply. And the Deity understands they’re sincere. As for equipment, we
used a Misty CMD with Panadream lenses, a Beulah 9000 for the Super-16, and an
Exogrid-slaved Arrant and two Mistys for a few of the time slips. The movie was filmed
completely on site in Strangers Rest, downtown Fort Worth, North Richland Hills, North
Dallas and Fort Jesup, La., except for the material on the aerial clock set. Our firing
relation was very tight – the ratio was 9.2 to 1. We had very little waste because each
scene was fixed and thoroughly plotted in advance.
Charlie: What did you do to get all that gorgeous lighting?
Stranger: Again, I must credit De Palma. His work in “Sisters” inspired me to
create a film that is exceptionally and prudently illuminated in a truthfully traditional
fashion, and it required plenty of time – which is most strange in a B-movie. But that is
the reason it feels so unusual. The cinematographers occasionally required up to one hour
to illuminate close-ups, which is particularly uncommon in a B-movie. However, it
formulates a considerable dissimilarity to the bland waking world. And it made the
primal goddesses look good.
Elmo: That is quite noteworthy. Because the archetypal B-movie typically
employs recoiled lighting, gets it in place as quickly as reasonable and then progresses to
the subsequent scene.
Stranger: But recoiled lighting, genuine settings and traveling quickly are for
another kind of movie with another kind of importance. Another kind of element is
necessary in a film like this, and it’s not necessary in something like, say “The Celestial
Marketplace of Benign Ideas.” The critical element in that film was to capture the realism
of the locations the characters inhabited. Like “Sisters,” the movie “Next Year at
Marienbad” is an ambiance film. We expended much effort to construct a situation to
generate an ambiance. We even built a distinctively customized missile silo.
Elmo: I understand you did a lot of the handheld Super-16 work yourself.
Stranger: Like De Palma, I have come to appreciate granular images – provided
one can employ them correctly. They create a tremendous sense of the inner world in
relation to the more literal images of 35 mm. However, one must place granular footage
in the correct location so that the resulting product doesn’t resemble a tasteless
exploitation flick.
Charlie: You’ve called “Next Year at Marienbad” an experiment in the
understanding of your incredible revelations. What do you mean by that?
Stranger: In “Next Year at Marienbad” I was attempting to labor in an
unadulterated motion picture design – accomplishing the whole thing with dramatic
imagery and determining the way all the bits of celluloid would be meshed, then scripting
the narrative and compelling it to actually emerge from the incredible revelations of my
nocturnal visions. I am filming it exactly and assembling it exactly and realizing that it in
fact succeeds exactly. Moviemaking is a wonderful art form. There is no more wonderful
way to capture an inner religious vision and bring it to life in the outer world than
through film. This is what I mean by the phrase “Dreaming the Apocalypse.”

########

“Marienbad My Love" Part 2
Son of The Deity, you look terrible.
Get out of the blistering sun, join me here within the sheltering penumbra of my
multi-hued “Sun of a Beach” umbrella. Hair a-friz, dark circled eyes, no make-up – you
are the one who bears the forlorn countenance of a prisoner, not me.
Why so pallid and miserable? Not for me, I hope. I am in agreement with Camus:
“I am happy – I am happy, I tell you, I won’t allow you to believe that I am not happy, I
am happy unto death!”
I am happy because now you are here, where I have brought you. You are still
hesitant, but you are here on this beach, on my island, within sight, touch, hearing.
What’s that? No, it is not already too late. You asked me not to see you again. We did see
each other, of course, the next day, or the day after or the day after that. It may have been
by chance. You were waiting for nothing. You were as though dead. That’s not true. You
are alive still. You are here. I see you. Do you remember? It’s not true – probably.
You’ve already forgotten everything. Forever walls, hallways, forever doors. And
on the other side, yet more walls. Before reaching you, rejoining you.
#
So here you are again. You have returned. Why? Perhaps you have bad news
about my case, an unfortunate pre-trial ruling against me. What? Yes, you are correct. It
is difficult to travel with me, a visionary neurotic, a post-modern prophet, a woebegone
wayfarer stumbling through the Land of the Dead. (And of course there are the bleeding
walls, the Nazi paratroopers, and the hand-eating spiders.)
My life is not easy. Do you not feel sorry for me? Then why do you still refuse
the role of idealistic attorney?
Maybe it is time we re-cast you. I still have an opening for a mechanical muse,
another of my lovely creations. Her job is to produce my authorized dreamography. In
this concept, you would be an old high school sweetheart (a common metaphor for the
archetypal muse) who has been converted into a computer program on a Martian space
probe. Intimate yet alien. We communicate via secret government black ops e-mail, then
I lose your signal (i.e., boy loses girl). I must find you all over again.
#
Mary Hardin-Baylor, I have resumed my search for you. That old prediction of
our togetherness calls to me, ordering me to send a signal back for our interpersonal
good. They will condemn us, the purveyors of the “old modern” future working through
the great way of the post-modern age. They wish us to finally and irrevocably expire
under this our administered star-spangled banner of the brave. But it is of no 
- 2
consequence. Be standard, I say. The individual is everything; the rules alone do not
determine what is best for you and me. Are we really just holding social anarchy at bay?
Does that sound right to you? Not me. But the flippant, stay-at-home mom is true in
many ways, oft having a blank slate upon which we can re-write our past. You can do it.
They also give us hope in the Stanford on Earth, adding that the new tests were good for
anything you want. Someone will support you, namely sociologists in an attempt to
understand the chaos of those middle years (what we societal U.S. nobodies would stop
to contact Earth).
So, please, hang on a little longer. I, the Wednesday of their discontent, enter the
Red Planet's atmosphere this month. Efforts to detect a weak signal that you could
command were to be repeated today. Processing data is the least of your worries. Some
people believe there are those among us who have come from Mars. Those individuals
weren't going to say “good for you,” especially while our time/place location was being
programmed for a return to Christendom. But as of Jan. 4, we’d yet to detect the lander
project. Everything is still go for the lander, of course. We could still be trying to contact
it if only we came to ourselves in time to detect the craft and send a radio transmission,
which would be blown away. I support you while others condemn you. Because it was I
who picked up all that we've got. There’s no common ground save for the 150-footdiameter dish, which was expected to take us on as its friend. Getting a phone call, our
old expectations are shackled to the December constructs by the warrants of everyone
else. Ah, to live as needed, to rule out the possibility that our side is controlled by
someone else, someone who said we are but a long shot. They live with someone here, no
doubt, a personal Aeronautics and Space Administration employee who sends commands
to the $165 million array. We choose onbeam signals that were immediately detected, but
the antenna team recently concluded that the dish might do right after all. They
contemplate a mission between the modern and post-modern ages via the collective
unconscious, now under the control of the evil Ozona cabal. Still, there is hope. People
have been doing that for centuries, or days, they say. There's honor in that.
#
The climax occurs on the mysterious North Face of the Mount of the Divine,
where I am part of a climbing team led by Dollar Bill Buckstop, the larger-than-life
Texas billionaire (and resident of Strangers Rest) who is preparing to open the first drivein movie theater on the top of the world. I plan to use a high-tech antennae array at the
construction site to re-establish the cosmic link with Mary Hardin-Baylor. But
somewhere near the summit, the billionaire is murdered and the team is caught in a
supernatural blizzard, compelling me to choose between saving the remaining members
of the expedition and saving my one true love.
Perhaps not as inspired as the cinematic creations of The Stranger, but give me
some time. After all, I’m still just a conventional dreamer.
At any rate, I am quite pleased to see you for I have good news to share. I have
received a high-quality transmission from the Land of the Dead. Something important has
happened in the firmament, and I have the authority to tell those who have not received
the transmission (i.e., “you”) what the transmission is: The woman on the neighboring
island came to see me last night.
We did not have a meeting of the membranes in this dream. No, this was a Big
Dream, a vision of The Deity. (This is so big it may be the opening scene for the movie.)
- 3
I am in a classroom with a beautiful girl. We must be dating, for she is hanging on
me, hugging me while the teacher talks. The class is religious in content and seems to be
oriented toward earning an award, perhaps a badge for Boy Scouts. But I make some
comment that I can't meet one of the requirements, which has to do with a prohibition
against ever having molested a child. The teacher says that means I can't get the award. I
immediately say I was just joking. But I know this is a poor excuse for humor, almost as
bad as if it were true. Why have I made such an unacceptable joke? I have sinned in my
heart. I don't deserve the award.
Then I am in the final bedroom of my youth in Duncanville, looking in my closet.
There is a DNA delivery organ on a hanger, the tip of the hook end inserted perhaps a
quarter of an inch into the injection port. Somehow, the organ is mine and not mine, all at
the same time. That is, it is both real and a visual rumor. But the organ must be mostly
metaphor because I am not disturbed by the fact it is on a hanger rather than properly
attached to my body. Also, I notice that the organ has become a bit misshapen from its
time forgotten in the closet, so long unused. This is metaphorical, too, perhaps a visual
rumor of my neglected and wounded instinctual drives. It occurs to me that I might yet be
able to repair it, twist and push it back into its original shape so it looks normal again.
Functionality can be restored.
Back on campus. I see now that the school I attend is a seminary, a Citadel of the
Defenders of the Faith. I am standing outside the main building, thinking about the error
of my ways, my sinful nature. Just then, a statue falls from the top of the building.
Somehow I am making it fall. My presence is literally pulling it down from its perch. The
statue crashes to the ground less than three feet from me, smashed into hundreds of
pieces.
This statue was the school’s venerated icon, a man in a sort of knight’s helmet. A
Christian soldier. But now the honored visual rumor of the seminary is no more. Hard to
believe the statue lasted as long as it did for I see that it was actually not solid, but
ceramic and hollow. The outside surface was weathered, but the inside remained white
and clean. In this heap of broken images I notice one element remains intact: It is the
front of the knight’s helmet, which lies on the ground like a discarded mask.
A crowd forms. One of the faculty members berates me for this act of destruction,
of heresy. I do feel guilty. After all, the statue fell because of me. But at the same time, I
am also indignant.
“I am the one who should be upset,” I insist. “I could have been injured or killed
by this falling object. It should have been better maintained.”
A second professor, a black woman, also criticizes me. I don't really get the
details of her argument, but I counter that the statue is not important to Christianity.
“People are important,” I say, “not statues.”
I don’t feel that I am particularly persuasive, and yet I must be persuasive enough
for she responds positively.
“I enjoy this sort of debate,” she says.
At this point I am joined by the girl from the beginning of the dream, and the
three of us walk together to one of the seminary’s classroom buildings. As we cross a
parking lot, a semi rig is backing slowly toward us. I must move back to give it a wide
berth. I step between two columns and enter an outdoor corridor, where I and the girl
follow the professor into the building. It's still early morning, so the building is not yet 
- 4
open to students. But we follow the professor in through a special access point for faculty
only. Inside, the girl gives me a paper (an essay or research paper, I think) that I am to
present to the professor.
But first, I must spit out some fatty, half-chewed meat I have in my mouth. It
tastes awful; I can't even swallow it. So I walk across the room to a sort of wall-mounted
ash tray, the type with a lever that causes the metal bowl to split into two halves. I see
that the shiny steel is filthy, contaminated by the juice of other half-eaten bites of meat
(no doubt discarded by other heretics before me). I use my finger to clean the meat out of
my mouth.
#
Did you know Buckstop went to seminary? I understand. It is hard to picture him
as an academic. (The over-the-top cowboy personality is just an act.)
Buckstop was a true believer. But then he fell away from true belief. When the
venerated icon shattered at his feet, he did not follow a kindly professor. Instead, he
stepped off the interpreted path and lost himself in the dark forest, where he came to
believe that extraterrestrial insects are the reason for all problems since the dawn of
human creation. He thought it was critical to promote the ideas of aerial timepiece
believers, ideas which have long driven the alleged “extraterrestrial kidnapping” topic
into community consciousness. Why? Because Buckstop believed these kidnappings –
and the alien kidnappers – were in fact demons.
He desired humankind to join together to battle the spawn of Satan in a high-tech
holy war. “I’m trying to save the world” he told me in our one brief meeting on board the
aerial clock, as he prepared to bring to life the world’s first privately owned and operated
deity (i.e., me). His plans may have been secret, but his ideas certainly were not. He even
published a religious tract, titled “The End is Here.” Here’s an excerpt:
“For many epochs now the human creature has unknowingly listened to the
suggestions of the extraterrestrial insects, suggestions that have been opposed by all
genuine clairvoyants and prophets. Now the Age of the Cicadians is fully upon us. If
tragedy is to be evaded, we must immediately seize the moment. The hands of the clock
are spinning. The signs are all visible. Financial, communal, cartographic, physical,
technical – we are in a critical state of affairs. Before the conclusion of this generation,
catastrophic and destructive occurrences may well rip apart the world. While the currents
of pointless, illogical violence wash over the tallest peaks of the planet, shortly drowning
each nation, and as the visual rumors of ethical and religious decomposition increase,
who can disbelieve that some of the extraterrestrial insects have participated in the
destruction? And if human beings or organizations can be manipulated, then
administrations and entire states can be manipulated, too. Already American churches are
profoundly penetrated. Make no mistake – the Cicadian matter is not one of mysticism,
but rather of deliberate mystification. Authorities and strategies are being strengthened
silently. And nothing is more authoritative or strategic that the silent inner workings of
the Cicadian-controlled Keepers of the Deity. For decades their strategies have been kept
at the ready, primed for delivery at exactly the correct hour. This hour is already set.
They call it the Battle of Armageddon.”
#
Charlie: The metaphorical and mythopoetic theology of “Next Year at
Marienbad” is a far cry from the scriptural literalism insisted upon by the Keepers of the 
- 5
Deity, especially the rigorous variety of literalism espoused in “The Abandoned Ones”
series.
Elmo: This is one of the central reasons Mark Leach has been labeled an agent of
the Antichrist.
Charlie: Why do the Keepers find his belief system so odious? Why is it so
terrible to wish for the destruction of the venerated icon and step off the interpreted path
and into the unexplored forest of original experience?
Elmo: To gain some insight, we had wanted to invite the authors of “The
Abandoned Ones” to our show. But the logistics were impossibly complicated due to the
100-yard requirement imposed in the restraining order.
Charlie: One little Bible burning. Why can’t you church people take a joke?
Elmo: Ha ha, just kidding.
Charlie: But not to worry. We have a special guest. Claret Frankly is the author of
“No Hell Too Deep,” a newly published tome that flays Leach and other 1950s B-movie
sci-fi filmmakers who pursue what she calls a false Apocalyptic genre. And she
specifically claims “Next Year at Marienbad” contains secret doubt-creating Satanic
codes, which are designed to infiltrate the souls of weak-willed believers and dissuade
them from accepting the truth of the Rapture. Welcome Claret.
Claret: Thank you.
Elmo: In your book, you say that many believers today are being blinded to the
facts of the End of the World. Some even submit to this blinding willingly. Claret, what
type of Worshipper of the Deity would intentionally avert their eyes from the facts of the
Rapture and prefer 1950s B-movie sci-fi?
Claret: In 2 Timothy, we learn that the Worshippers of the Deity who do not bear
Steadfast Decree, but instead go after their own yearnings, will gather around themselves
all variety of bad sorts. Adulterers, murderers, abortionists, Democrats. These bad sorts
are in league with the directors and cinematographers of a false Apocalypse. Those who
do not bear Steadfast Decree will avert their eyes from the facts of the Son of the Deity
and turn unto the 1950s B-movie sci-fi antichrist.
Charlie: So they’re believers, but they fall away from the true faith.
Claret: Exactly. These people are Worshippers of the Deity because they
possessed the knowledge of the facts at one time. The problem is they turned away from
those facts in favor of a more palatable sci-fi, which they found easier to swallow than
the spiritual water of the Utterance of the Deity. The only protection against this Sataninduced doubting is to be a true, twice-created Worshipper of the Deity.
Elmo: So you’re saying that 1950s B-movie sci-fi, which is a fictional story that is
intended to turn men from the facts, is actually Satan's nonfiction reward for believers
who are tired of Steadfast Decree.
Claret: No, not at all. It’s definitely fiction. As in a bald-faced lie. False directors
and cinematographers give the weak-willed believers what they want to see and hear. All
Worshippers of the Deity must strive to distrust what they yearn to see and hear and,
instead, exercise themselves unto godliness by consuming the pure spiritual water of the
true Utterance. The false cinematic utterances are to be rebuffed by the Worshipper of the
Deity, because they are blasphemous, or impure. 
- 6
Charlie: But Mark Leach says the central image of his movie, the clock in the sky,
is a sign of the Deity. So it is about God. That certainly doesn’t sound blasphemous or
impure to me.
Claret: The Clock in the Air is an ancient occult visual rumor. It is a sign of Satan.
It is one of the Evil One’s doubt-inducing codes. Same with the destruction of the
venerated icon. Clearly, the shattered statue is code for the destruction the Deity, which
of course is another lie espoused by the Antichrist.
Charlie: I see here on the dust jacket that you claim the false cinematic utterances
are to be cast aside because they hold both light and darkness. What do you mean by
that?
Claret: It’s simple, really. The Deity cannot be a combination of light and
darkness. The Deity is light – all light. In him there is no darkness at all.
Elmo: But Mark Leach points out that we all cast a shadow, that you can’t have
light without darkness.
Claret: Not the Deity. He is all light, and He magnifies the shining brilliance of
his utterance even above his own name. But Mark Leach, he would have us accept as true
that the Deity is satisfied with abhorrent conduct. Mr. Leach believes the Deity has
judged that it is OK to consume illegal mysticism, present cash offerings to primal
goddesses and expel your ectoplasm willy nilly into the membranes of your former high
school sweetheart.
Charlie: In all fairness, I’m not sure that Mark is actually endorsing –
Claret: If the content of a fictional story that is directed toward Worshippers of the
Deity is blasphemous and projects question marks on the unconditional facts of the
Deity’s Utterance, and turns men away from the facts in any way, then that is an
endorsement. This fictional work of darkness must be edited away by the true, Satan-free
people of the Deity.
Elmo: Isn’t it true that Mark Leach has said that he is a monotheist and therefore
does not believe in Satan?
Claret: Well, there you go. That’s an example of what happens inside the soul
when doubt-creating Satanic codes are introduced into a false, once-created Worshipper
of the Deity. That’s why the Son of the Deity said you must be a twice-created
Worshipper of the Deity. It’s the only way to become spiritually fireproof and thereby
escape destruction in the Lagoon of Flames.
Charlie: Yes, back to the Petri dish.
Claret: What?
Elmo: Miss Frankly, do you believe Mark Leach will be judged by the Deity?
Claret: We’ll all be judged. That is a fact made clear by the Deity. But I have
received a high-quality transmission from Heaven on this very subject. Without a doubt,
Mr. Leach’s Armageddon Day will be most unpleasant. He is an issuer of blasphemous
decrees, movies that make marketplace commodities out of the Deity’s people and those
yet to become the Deity’s people. Mr. Leach’s so-called incredible revelations disguise
the right way of the Deity, and He will judge all directors and cinematographers of such
false movies accordingly. As it states in Matthew 18, it would be better for such a
detestable moviemaker that a heavy reel of celluloid were hanged about his neck, and that
he were drowned in the roiling surf, the inner sea.
Charlie: Beware of the riptide.
- 7
#
Jack the Jaguar accelerates into the warm flesh of desire, propelling us through
the passionate membrane into eager pursuit. We close in on the car of dreams from the
last Saturday night of long-expired youth; the vanity plate reads ``1964 FI.’’
“Fuel injection!’’ he marvels.
And for me, there is the appeal of the driver of 1964 FI. Wind buffets her long
blonde mane, a thin cotton blouse in dairy cow print fluttering around her curving form, a
striking beauty, big-boned and farmer’s daughter fresh. A girl who loves cows. Pastoral
images inform his impending fantasy: He zooms in on the gaping armhole, catches a
glimpse of raw mammary tissue -- a giant pink creature slinking along on a milky
pseudopod, crushing houses and cars in search of cornfed Kansas desire. Moos of
sleeveless pleasure, joy glinting off polished horn and upturned mouth. A carnal scene
regarded in a private corner of erotic shame.
Guiltily, I look back at the road and see another thin restoration materializing. It is
an oncoming Volvo, Allison at the wheel. We have been up half the night -- a case of
unconsolable Justin, silvery colic generating a condescending gleam from the emergency
room nurse, the handing over of an infuriatingly useless pamphlet, the return of a threemonth-old monster and the receipt for our $80 check.
“Are you angry?” Allison asks.
``No, I’m perfectly fine."
“Are you sure? Because you are acting like a total shithead. Can’t you just --’’
No I can’t.
#
Forgive me, but we must pause yet again to consider the parallels to “Let Me
Love You.” At times it seems as if the elements of this great drive-in movie classic and
my own life are so inextricably linked as to be one in the same.
#
I recently received a letter from little Susie Happenstook, a eight-year-old larva
in Miss Beechemeyer’s second grade Caringday School class at Clark Our Creator and
Sustainer Church.
#
Dear God,
Is there a Mrs. God?
Love,
Susie
#
Good question, little Susie, glad you asked!
Back in the day, I did have a wife. We were very happy. Actually, that is not
entirely true. I was happy. Mrs. God filed for divorce.
Divorce – and child support and alimony (in participating states) – is what wives
used to do to men they were not happy being married anymore. Wives did this because
the law prohibited them from cutting off their husbands’ packages.
What’s a package? Well my beloved creations, because you reproduce through
the use of cellular mitosis and fibrous husks you do not have packages. But let me tell
you, they were just about the most important part of the anatomy of 21st century male
homo sapiens and absolutely essential to life. 
- 8
Back in the day, when a man loved a woman very much, he would express that
love by compelling the woman to assume various unlikely positions while he inserted his
package into her bodily orifices. This allowed all the love inside the man to go into the
woman – sometimes three or four times a night if the man had a sufficiently enormous
package. Like God.
Anyway, this is what men like me called sharing. Sharing is good, right? Sharing
is CARING, which is the heart of Caringism, the religion I have given you, my beloved
creations.
Yes, it is better to share than not share. Sharing makes us happy. Back in the day,
sometimes a man had so much love inside he wanted to share it with lots of women,
squirting it inside them – especially inside his 22-year-old administrative assistant with
the big boobs and the tight ass looking so fine on top of his desk in his corner office after
the cleaning crew had gone home for the night. Picture me rollin’! This was sharing, too,
but it turns out this particular form of sharing was not so good.
What’s that? Why thank you. I must admit I do have a way with words.
Back in the day, I was what people called a spin doctor. Companies would
sometimes get a sort of illness, which typically manifested itself in the form of what was
referred to by agitated members of upper management as a “Motherfucker” – that is, a
newspaper reporter or television anchorperson. These Motherfuckers would report
terrible, damaging things about companies. Such as “the supertanker is leaking crude oil
on the baby seals” or “the nursing home caused little Kevin’s grandmother to starve to
death.”
Terrible. Do you believe these lies? Of course not. I made you smarter than that.
Back in the day, though, my fellow homo sapiens were not so smart. They often
believed the lies of Motherfuckers. If the lies were sufficiently bad, then it would make it
difficult for the company to continue to make the amount of money to which its
shareholders believed they were entitled. That’s where I came in. My job: Make the lie go
away – or at least diminish its impact – so my company could continue to make the
amount of money to which its shareholders believed they were entitled. Typically, I would
do this by telling the true story which had been incorrectly reported. I would start by
telephoning the Motherfucker and saying something like “I know you have a job to do. I
used to be a reporter, too. So I’ll tell you everything you want to know.” This is what we
called transparency. No secrets. It was as if to say, “listen Motherfucker, I’m going to
tell you everything you want to know.” Then I would tell the Motherfucker what I wanted
him to know.
Take the baby seals, for instance. I might say “we are pleased to put this minor
accident behind us.” If the Motherfucker then countered my claim of a minor accident
with some wild tale about thousands of seals dying on an oil-slicked beach in Alaska, I
might say “these deaths have nothing to do with us, but are a natural part of God’s plan
and the circle of life.” If this still didn’t work, then I might tilt my head to one side and
ask “what seals?”
In fact, many times I would start with one truth and if it didn’t work out I would
switch to another truth. A good spin doctor knows many truths. In the case of little
Kevin’s grandmother, I might start by saying “our nursing home serves meals that are
both savory and nutritious.” If the Motherfucker then televised a shot of little Kevin
crying, I might say “don’t cry, little Kevin, your grandmother lives with Jesus now.” 
- 9
That’s spin doctoring. Really, we should call it “truth” doctoring. That’s right, I
was a doctor of truth. And I was very good at it. What I wasn’t so good at was
recognizing that spin (aka “truth”) doesn’t work in every situation. For instance, the
truth doesn’t work at all in a marriage – at least it didn’t with Mrs. God.
I recall a vision recorded by my prophet in the sacred text, aptly titled “The Voice
of God”:
#
We have recently purchased an old house, which we will restore for our new
home. It appears to be from the 1930s, a rather plain example of Tudor style. The house
is uphill from the road, and the narrow driveway – just one car wide – lies along the
right side of the house. On the other side of the drive, just past the house, is a
freestanding garage. However, there is no access to this garage from the driveway. Not
much landscaping here. No shade trees, just a large planting bed encompassing most of a
slope at the back of the house.
I go to a restaurant, where I am to meet my wife. I am seated and brought a drink,
but still she does not show. I begin to worry perhaps she doesn’t know to come. Then I
run into a friend who is here for a business meal with a Motherfucker from some trade
publication. The journalist is out of the room, so we are not introduced. When he returns
to the table, he does not know I am a daily newspaper Motherfucker, sitting within
earshot. I listen to everything, marveling that if anything newsworthy is discussed I will
be able to beat this Motherfucker to print.
Then I am outside behind the restaurant, at the rear entrance. There is a set of
three or four steps of open construction (no risers), revealing a sort of exposed cistern
below. I slide a dead man into the water.
Am I the one who killed him? I am not sure, though it is clear that by disposing of
the body I am an accessory. I watch the body sink feet first into the water, which appears
to be lit from within. This water is white – as if watered down milk – but clear enough
that I can see the dead man for several feet before he fades from sight. I throw gold into
this cistern, too. Somehow the gold is associated with the man. It occurs to me the body
will eventually float back to the surface. When the police come to investigate, though,
they will not know to look in the bottom. They probably won’t find the gold, which means
I can later retrieve the treasure.
Then I realize the cistern is just a glass jar.
I pick it up, and through the milky water I see there are jagged pieces of glass or
maybe metal in the bottom of the jar. No gold, no little corpse.
I return to my house. In the back yard I see a Suburban, and a woman is sitting at
the wheel. She is waiting for me. Somehow I know she is associated with the dead man. In
fact, she is supposed to be dead, too. Yet she is alive. I suspect she is really the walking
dead. She is angry, here to confront me.
Did I kill her? Were we sexually involved? If so, this could be doubly bad for me.
Trouble with the police and my wife.
#
Mrs. God did not like this vision.
“If you ever cheat on me I’ll kill you,” she threatened.
- 10
Harsh. Did she not understand the metaphors of the old house and the dead man
and the gold? Truthfully, I’m the guy with the gold. Isn’t that obvious? I wonder: Did we
even read the same book?
Ah, the life of the misunderstood God.
Here’s the truth: I did not insert my package into other women while I was
married to that women – Mrs. God. Other husbands, other men did this. But not me.
Just them, not me.
Well, perhaps occasionally me, such as the time I shared my love on the desk with
the 22-year administrative assistant with the big boobs and the tight ass.
One time. One time! OK, maybe several.
Anyway, that’s why back in the day Mrs. God wanted to cut off my package. Let
the record show I don’t do that sort of sharing anymore. Not that it matters.
Mrs. God has gone to live with Jesus now.
#
See what I mean? Am I not Clark Caring? Do you not see the undeniable
similarities? Can you not understand why this is my favorite movie? You do? Good. At
last. Now let us continue.
#
Back in the evening traffic, something sighted ahead. More memory reflected in
the safety glass? No, it is the girl again, connecting with me via a knowing glance
captured in the side view mirror. (Sometimes objects are closer than they appear.)
Embarrassed, I quickly turn away, losing myself in high-gloss paint, resigned to a
quiet fantasy pinstriped in red, red lipstick.
``She’s doing 90!’’ Jack says, clearly impressed. We pull up alongside the blonde
and Jack motions for me to roll down his window.
``Is that thing working?’’ he asks, pointing to the radar detector suction cupped to
her windshield.
``It better be!’’ she shouts back.
“Great car.’’
``Thanks.’’
``Where are you going?’’
The girl rolls her eyes, but smiles to let us know she isn’t offended. I blink in
disbelief: Is that really her, thoughtfully chewing her cud? No, the pink thought bubble
reveals the truth, but it does not matter. I live the fantasy, touching her fine, pink udder,
teats as big as a thumb – whoa! – this beautiful creature burning in my lust. Then she is
gone, zipping past a lumbering semi, its big diesel whine insisting on an unabridged gulf
between us. Jack does not try to follow.
``What’s a girl like her doing with a great old Stingray like that?’’ he asks. ``She
must have had a brother or boyfriend pick it out for her. She probably wanted it because
she thought it was cute.’’
``I saw a big diamond on her left hand.”
“But I bet she wants it,” Mack says. The remark is more casual than prophetic,
though. He is already gone, shifting the smooth British gears, rods and pistons doing the
old in-out through the clean yellow oil, moving the bulbous steel down the road, beyond
the blonde and the car and on into the lights ahead, a bare night sojourn for a frantic,
futile trip.
- 11
We approach a line of freeway-fronting auto dealers, the nearest one sweeping the
sky with a giant searchlight, its mirrored white flame illuminating a cow-shaped cloud
grazing over Texas Stadium.
``I just get so revved up when I drive into the lights of the city,’’ Jack says. ``It
always makes me feel like something wonderful is about to happen.’’
#
Plato’s Palace is a little purgatory for the primal goddess, a stopping-off point
between East Texas trailer park poverty and the upscale flesh temples where the welltipped priestess can enhance Mother Nature’s bequest with surgical implants. And for
those with even more ambitious imaginations, a springboard to Hollywood. Porno
anyway.
So it’s no surprise that perhaps a half dozen goddesses are crowding around The
Stranger and his crew, who are here to shoot Jack and me on our big night on the town.
Patrons, waitresses and bouncers are also close at hand – observing, arms crossed,
standing on chairs, peeking around the bar, idling in the doorway. But the goddesses are
front and center, ogling the accoutrements of moviemaking: heavy cables, blue-white
lights, boom microphones, digital videocameras. And of course The Stranger, director of
the epic film. The girls brush fingertips across the hair on his forearms, throw their heads
back in fake laughter, whisper into his ears, finger the little palm-sized viewfinder
dangling from the lanyard around his neck.
“All right then,” he says. “Mark, this is the scene where you cross the first
threshold and enter the Special World.”
“What is he talking about?” Jack asks. But The Stranger does not hear him.
“You prepare to cross the threshold,” he continues, “a sojourner into an odd
border land, an earth sandwiched between earths, a region of passage that may be
deserted and forlorn, or in locations similar to this, full of days. You detect the nearness
of other creatures, other powers with pointed barbs or talons, protecting the path to the
jewels for which you search. But you have no time to withdraw. Every one of us senses
it. The journey is under way, for better or worse.”
One of the bouncers, a meaty guy with a giant wedge of muscle for a back and a
tree trunk for a neck, shakes his head.
“Sorry, the boss says no filming tonight.”
The Stranger in turn shakes his head with great condescension. “I have a
contract.”
“Get real, it’s a Saturday night,” another bouncer remarks. “It’s our biggest eight
hours of the week. The boss isn’t going to let you get in the way of that.”
The Stranger considers this. He nods. “We’ll proceed with that,” he says
offhandedly, almost rudely, without looking at the bouncers. “We’ll do this scene later,
on a soundstage in Las Colinas. It’ll look more real anyway. And just so you’ll know,
Plato’s Palace is out. We’ll call it Caligula’s 21 DNA Delivery Organs.”
#
After The Stranger and crew leave, Jack and I take our usual table in the back
under a stylized mural of a chiseled, marble-jawed man outfitted in gold-flaked toga and
laurel leaves, these baroque ornaments, this Venetian plaster hand, holding grapes behind
it, foliage, as though from a garden awaiting us beyond these walls paneled in the
baroque embellishments of an earlier time. Mute rooms, where footsteps are lost in 
- 12
sculpted berber so profound, so deep that one perceives no step – as if the ear itself were
distant and remote from this numb, barren décor, far from this elaborate Roman frieze
beneath the cornice, with its branches and garlands like dead leaves.
“That’s the only thing Roman about this place, isn’t it?” I say. “Why is there
never any orgy action?”
“Used to be a quite a few here,” Jack assures me.
“I want sit around in a toga while they feed me grapes.”
“They used to do that, too. But there’s still plenty of fun. You just have to work at
it.” Then Jack leaned in conspiratorially and whispered. ``That one did me under the table
last week.”
It is a familiar story, sending a wave of voyeuristic disgust washing over me.
``How do you get women to do these things to you? Do you hypnotize them,
leave big offerings or something?’’
Jack laughs and takes a big swallow of his drink, a greenish sacrament called a
California Kamikaze.
``Nothing like that, she did it for free. Her name’s Sally. She’s real nice. She’s
just an acolyte, she doesn’t do rites. I was in a few weeks ago and I kept ordering drinks
from her and we started talking. Last week I came in again and made her drink a few, too.
She starts pretending like she’s going to give me a prophesy. It was real funny. I was
laughing my head off. Then she kneels down right in front of me’’ he indicates a point
between his spread knees ``and I’m still laughing. Then she grabs my crotch and zips
down my pants.’’
I shake my head and tip back my drink -- tart with a slight taint of decay -- as he
finishes the story. “I tried to pace myself, but she was like a race car. I was spent in about
a minute.”
``How could you do it with all these people around?"
“Nobody could see anything. She was under the table. I just sat there, watching
the goddesses and enjoying my drink.’’
“No, I mean how could you maintain?’’
“Maintain?” Jack just shrugs his shoulders and smiles. He had once proposed that
we jointly write a book -- I’d write, he’d research -- about the actual business of primal
worship. He asked if we could get some serious money for research (i.e., drinks and
offering) , but was disappointed to learn that a publisher’s advance was unlikely.
Then Jack snaps his fingers. “How about we get The Stranger to turn this movie
into a documentary, a story about the primal goddess industry.”
“I don’t think he’s going to go for that. He’s pretty set on doing a movie about the
End of the World.”
“Well goddamn, he’s useless.”
I burst out laughing at the uncharacteristic curse, which eggs Jack on.
“I mean, I loan you my onbeam gear, and what do you do with it? If it were me,
I’d have gone straight for Porno Lane. Dream a date with Catherine Zeta-Jones in
spandex. But not you. No, you go onbeam and dream up Cecil B. DeMille. And how did
you get him out of the virtual canvass, here into real life?”
“I don’t have a clue.”
“Damn, you should have been dreaming Catherine Zeta-Jones. You missed out.”
#
- 13
Jack downs the rest of his drink and motions to the bartender for two more “And
I’m bringing back something extra special for you,’’ he says.
``What?’’
“Nothing to worry about. Just a little well-deserved fun.”
“I don’t know. I think I just want to watch tonight.”
“That's all you ever do anymore,” he says through his laughter. “Trust me, you’re
going to like this. She’s special.”
“Oh yeah? What makes her special?”
“I don’t know, she’s just is."
“OK.”
“Journalists. I don’t know. She just – she tells you your secret thoughts.”
“They all do that.”
“Look, just finish your drink. I’ll be right back.’’
I watch Jack talk to the bartender, rescinding his order and calling up a
customized version of the green sacrament. He points to various bottles of unlikely
combinations, occasionally using his thumb and forefinger to indicate proportions. The
bartender appears to be having a good time. Jack certainly is. The scene reminds me of
another night of drinking a few lifetimes ago.
It was our senior year in high school, one cold, star crazed February night on a
manicured berm at The Green, a subdivision where Jack’s father had been building.
Fortified with a gallon jug of burgundy wine, we broke out the guitars and puffed
warm breath into numb fingers for duets of “Rocky Raccoon” and “Tom Dooley,” the
only two songs to which we both knew all the chords. In between performances, we laid
out the plans for our lives. Marriage, children. We’d never let divorce mar our movieperfect lives. We were good Christian boys. And if we could manage it, we’d even be
next door neighbors, living in the houses that Jack would build. (Even then, he knew he
wanted to be a home builder like his dad.) We had big plans for our movie of life. The
script did not include drinking green sacraments with primal goddesses. I am
overwhelmed by egregious moral failure. Condemned.
#
- 14
#
How is it with me, you ask? How is it with this, my sense of decay and death?
Picture yourself as me: You are watching a movie from within a movie. You are
there, but apparently only as an observer. You play no role nor do you interact with
anyone.
The scene is inside a huge building with a very high ceiling which rises many
stories. You are in some strange Muslim society. But the women do not wear veils or
appear in any way to be second class citizens. In fact, they appear to be in charge of the
proceedings. You understand that the women, although subservient to Muslin men, are in
control of some very specific but critical aspects of society. Women are in charge of this
place, a sort of courtroom where a trial is under way. A man has been brought before the
court. He is accused of committing some sin or insult against a woman. You sense that it
is more of a cultural misstep than anything most Americans would think of as a crime.
There are only three people: The defendant, the plaintiff and the judge. The plaintiff and
the judge are both women.
The judge talks about this crime or sin, reciting what you understand is the
official wording of such a proceeding. If the defendant man is judged guilty, then the
punishment will be death. You do not hear the actual charge (or anything else that is
said). When the time comes for the man to speak, he tells the plaintiff he is terribly sorry.
“Will you forgive me?” he asks.
“No.”
His fate is sealed. He must die.
The condemned man is suspended from a sort of cable and hoisted high in the air.
You assume he will be killed in the air or perhaps dropped to his death; you do not know
the mode of execution. But after the man is raised, he is then partly lowered. And raised
yet again. You sense that part of his punishment is to prolong death, a sort of
psychological torture. In other words, his fate is “left hanging.”
This is more than the man can take. He leaps from the cable to a catwalk.
Suddenly you find youself on this catwalk, too. You now realize that the floor plan of the
room is a giant circle, and various levels of catwalks ring the wall. The man tries to hide
here, for now there are uniformed male guards or bailiffs hurrying about. They are
carrying guns and wearing what look like football helmets. These men are in charge of
enforcing the actions of the woman-controlled court.
There is a fire or explosion in front of the man, and everything is cloaked in
smoke and shadow. Then the air clears, and you see that the man now has a blackened
face. Because of flying shrapnel from the explosion, he also has two bolts sticking out of
his forehead. They look like devil horns. And you see something like long, pointy catfish
whiskers on his head, swept back in place of what was his hair.
You know as you view this that it is intentional cinematic visual rumorism; the
viewer is to understand that the man, by rejecting his justly imposed punishment, has
been transformed into a personification of evil (i.e., Satan). This is the shadow made
flesh.
The man speaks to someone, perhaps you.
“Tell my children that I am dead,” he says.
The moviegoer understands this is a visual rumor, too. The man-turned-demon
now understands that the person he was before is no more; he has been recreated by the 
- 15
firey explosion. The helmeted men hunt this devil in order to kill him, to carry out the
judgment of the court.
Then you realize the movie is actually your movie. Your story. The demon is
really you.
#
I don’t like the idea of demons, of Satan. I much prefer the theology of “Let Me
Love You.” I know, I know – it’s just 1950s B-movie sci-fi. But let me tell you, Ward
Timber was not just some schlock director. He had a Message.
#
Don’t you ever get tired of hurting me?
Yes, I know what you say about me, my beloved creations. I am a bad god, a
minor deity with a lowercase “g”. I am all badness and darkness. Not at all like that
other God, the one with the uppercase “G”. He is a good God. He is all goodness and
light. That’s what you say. You thought I didn’t know.
Jehovah had it all figured out. Back in the day, during the Babylonian exile, He
allowed His chosen people to develop a dualistic theology. Can you believe it? Two gods.
He was the good one, the creator and sustainer. Satan was the bad one, the destroyer.
Even in my time, when most believers claimed to be monotheists, Satan was an
essential part of the equation. Even those who didn’t believe in a literal prince of
darkness found Satan to be a convenient metaphor for the evil in the world.
Some of you say “God is the answer.” Maybe so. But how can God be the answer
when He is the question? Let us consult the sacred text:
#
And the journey through prohibited places continues.
My wife and I are in a strange place, an alien society. We are fleeing from unseen
people in a seemingly abandoned structure, maybe a stadium. The design is somewhat
reminiscent of the UFO house, but on a much larger and grander scale.
We spot a place almost out of sight, near the base, where you can see the
underlying construction. My wife comments that we can see the steel support beams. As
we look for a hiding place, we find a marble alcove reminiscent of ancient Roman
architecture. It is perhaps the size of a bedroom. This alcove is out of sight, but I
immediately realize that if we are found here there will be no escape. We will be trapped.
So we go in search of a more secure place of safety. In search of –
Forever, a past of Carrara marble…like a garden carved in stone…a mansion, its
rooms deserted now… still, mute, perhaps long-dead people…still guarding the web of
hallways…along with I advance to meet you…between hedgerows of faces,
masklike…watchful, indifferent…towards you as you still hesitate, perhaps…gazing at
the entrance to a garden.
Or perhaps an island.
And then that we realize there are people everywhere, hurrying about in search of
their own hiding places. It is growing dark, suggesting to me that the time to get out of
sight is almost here. I realize that we are not well suited for this. I am wearing only white
boxers and my wife is in little more than shorts and a top. Where to go? I see a young
black man, very dark. He is shirtless. I instantly fear him – and all of the obviously
desperate people around us. This man will rape my wife, or someone else will. Where to
go?
- 16
I see a flight of steps leading to a lower level. The black man waves his hand,
showing us the way down the steps. Like an usher.
“I will take you to a place of safety,” he says.
I do not trust him, so I grab my wife’s hand and we bolt through a doorway to the
outside.
We find ourselves standing under a loggia, looking out on a plaza that reminds
me of the main square in New Orleans’ French Quarter. Many people are relaxing in
small groups. All of them are young and beautiful, the elite of this society. They are
obviously of a higher social cast than the underground people who are scrambling for
shelter before nightfall.
They are dressed for leisure, though in a way I have never seen. On bared
stomachs, each person displays a large, painted eye. It is the Eye of Horus, the ancient
Egyptian symbol used to ward off sickness and bring the dead back to life. The latter
must be the case here, for the eye was also used as an amulet over the embalmer’s
incision. That’s how you made a suitable mummy.
The Eye of Horus is a particularly fitting image for this point in the journey, for it
was only the day before – in the waking world – that I was reading the Old Testament
story of Joseph’s dream and his resulting enslavement in Egypt. This was his destiny.
These Third Eye people look us over, instantly judging us to be the inferior,
underground people. We do not belong; they fear us. Not waiting for them to act on this
judgment, we run toward the street at the end of the loggia. This creates some excitement.
I kick someone in their abdominal eye, and my wife – now inexplicably holding a baby in
her arms – breaks into a run. Another of the Third Eye people produces a large plastic
lens (square, perhaps 15 to 20 inches per side) and places it in front of my stomach.
Apparently, this action is intended to draw attention to the fact that my abdomen does not
possess the required cyclopean makeup. I am blind.
I try to follow my wife, but the path is barred by a man. He is a sort of henchman
for the man in charge, who I somehow know. I try to fight him. Someone hands me the
blade of a plastic toy sword, and the man in charge laughs. Someone else hands me the
handle, and I hastily assemble the two pieces. Even though it is a toy, I realize that it is a
real sword. It can injure, even kill.
With this weapon, I lunge at the man in charge. But I miss, and he disarms me. He
thrusts the sword deep into my pelvis. As he withdraws the weapon, there is a thought in
my head (or maybe the man is speaking it) that the sword is stuck inside me. This is the
wound of the Fisher King.
If he pulls hard enough, then I will be lifted off the ground. For some reason I
decide it is best to fake this. I lift my buttocks a few inches off the ground. Even so, the
pain is real. But I understand that I will recover from this wound. I will heal and live to
fight again.
#
This is the sacred text that preceded my trip to Hell via the 1950s B-movie Flying
Saucer House, a Romanesque marble-clad aerial clock.
I arrive on a beautiful spring morning. No Third Eye people, no plastic swords.
Picture the Texas Hill Country. Red granite outcroppings, bluebonnets, live oaks – and
goats. Tens of thousands of goats – maybe millions – as far as the eye can see. Millions of 
- 17
goats grazing on little bluestem. Some are adorned with brightly colored ribbons, which
are being removed by a kindly man in a soft plaid shirt and tidy beard.
“These are the scapegoats,” he explains as he carefully unknots a green and pink
ribbon from one of his charges. “These ribbons – these are all the sins of the world.
When the goats first come to me, they are weak and battered from their long journey
through the wilderness. I untie the ribbons and nurse them back to health.”
The goat tender shows us the black and gray remnants of a long-extinguished
trash fire.
“This is where I disposed of the ribbons. Before God was arrested, I kept the fire
burning 24-7. There was no end to the sins.”
“You burned them all?” I ask.
“All but one.” He reaches into his shirt pocket and produces a ragged strip of
purple cloth. “This one is special, at least to me.”
“Why?”
“I’ll give you a hint: Get behind me, Satan!”
“Jesus?”
“Exactly. Know who he said that to?”
“Judas?”
“No. Peter. But he also called Peter his rock.”
“Something to think about, I suppose.”
“People are so eager to blame their sins on me. It’s a heavy burden.”
“There are a lot of goats.”
“I do what I can. You know, I rebel one time – ONE TIME! – and I’m cast out of
Heaven forever. That I can live with. But to be blamed for every bad thing that everyone
ever does? Everyone wants forgiveness for themselves. But no, not for me. Am I so bad,
comparatively speaking?”
“Well, you are the Price of Darkness.”
“How about the Job wager? That wasn’t my darkness. God agreed to that one on
his own. Does that sound so nice? Is that all goodness and light? No, I don’t think so.
How about a little sympathy, eh?”
#
Jack returns to the table with two more drinks – and two friends.
One is his girlfriend Courtney (altar name ``Corvette’’), and the other I’ve never
seen before. She resembles most of the Plato’s Palace goddesses, big hair and small,
gravity-defying breasts that seem to support her halter top rather than the other way
around. She has dark brown skin, but blonde hair and stereotypical Caucasian facial
features. Really, she looks white, but with a shadow across her face, an inner world
complexion suggestive of mystery and danger.
She is made up in heavy mascara and glittery lipstick, like a little girl trying to
look grown up. In fact, I assume she is a teenager; most of the priestesses look like they
really should be in high school. TABC inspectors are often alluded to, but they seem to
be no great hindrance to primal worship. Other than her shadow looks, she doesn’t seem
special at all.
The girl juts out a boyish hip and looks me up and down, lips parted and
sparkling.
“So you’re the famous Mark Leach.’’
- 18
“Famous?’’
Jack leans into my ear. ``I told her all about you,’’ he confides.
Her name is Cinnamon, and she considers herself to be the trendsetter at Plato’s
Palace. Famous, in fact. She claims to be the originator of the ``altar slap,’’ a favorite
move of Plato’s Palace goddesses. She even provides a quick demonstration, which I find
both useful and agreeable.
`Where’d you learn that?’’ I ask, trying to be polite. I've never had any idea what
to say to a primal goddess. They are like forces of nature. I’d be just as effective speaking
to the tide.
``I invented it.’’
``What a coincidence. My grandfather was an inventor.’’
``And what did he invent?’’
`He came up with a process for color photography, back in the '40s.’’
Cinnamon appears suitably impressed. ``Is he rich?’’
“No, he was afraid somebody would steal his idea. So he kept it to himself. Died
virtually penniless.’’
Cinnamon sucks on a chipped red fingernail, her interest obviously waning. I’ve
never had any idea how to hold the attention of a primal goddess. What to say, what to
say… and then I know.
“You were waiting for me.”
“What?” she asks. “Why should I wait for you?”
“I have myself waited a long time for you.”
“In your dreams.”
“And you are trying to escape once more.”
“What do you mean? I don’t understand a thing you say.”
“Oh.”
“Did he take pictures, too?’’
“Who?”
“Your grandfather.”.
``Oh. Yes. He was a portrait photographer.’’
Cinnamon smiles a premeditated, bad-girl smile and sits beside me, a sweaty, thin
thigh pressed hard against my hand. She leans in close, exhaling a hot, perfumed breath,
unreal, luxuriating in the goddess role she plays -- perhaps at Jack’s request, perhaps
simply because she likes it. I have no illusions that it is because she likes me.
``You think he’d like to take a picture of me?’’
``Well.’’
``I bet you would,’’ she says. “Do you want to know my real name?”
“Yes.”
Again she smiles, then stands up and sheds her insect-print halter top.
Her torso is actually a bit more impressive than I’d imagined upon my first
cursory look, a misjudgment I attribute to lack of practice looking at women’s torsos. It
had been years since I’ve had a good, daylight look at Allison’s, a statuesque, model's
body made of translucent flesh so delicate and pale you could see right through to her
purple veins. Ah yes, Allison is quite stunning -- and impossibly distant. She is no primal
goddess.
- 19
But I do not think of Allison for long. Because Cinnamon is not performing a rite
intended to exhibit her classical attributes. You can’t even call it a rite, really. She doesn’t
move to the music, or at least not any music that is playing in the outer world. Yet there
is an unmistakable rhythm to it, an insistent beat. She locks eyes with me and won’t look
away, won’t let me look away. She doesn’t touch me, but I detect the heat of her body,
hear her short, quick breath, feel the beating of tattered moth wings, smell her floral
sweat. I seek the scent of gardenias, but it’s soon lost in the jagged protein stench of raw,
undifferentiated tissue, reaching deep into flattened empty lungs, floating through
memories of meaningless solo DNA delivery performances, climbing aboard a train
ripping on all the way through the misty, neon-illuminated summer darkness, gazing into
a countenance of distant deified granite, grabbing at paralyzed recollections of hopeless
adolescence and the depreciated schematics of youthful desire.
Floating, gazing, grabbing – grabbing her, grabbing and pulling her into sacred
proximity to my membranes. I have scripted a muse. But I cannot claim her. In fact, I
cannot even move. My arms are lead pipes, blood drains from my head to the nether
regions, engorged tissues straining against double-stitched seams. My eyelids flutter; I
see the whole extent of the heavens. Ah, Cinnamon.
The music stops. Lost in a storm of hoots and cheers for the priestess on the
central altar, my personal rite is over. But no – Cinnamon has one more trick: She drops
down on her knees, the top of her head bumping my abdomen. As she rises to her feet, I
look down and see glittery lipstick on my fly.
``You can close your mouth now,’’ Cinnamon says. She reaches for her top, her
discarded cicada skin, then thinks better of it.
“Hang onto that,” she instructs me. “I’ll be back for it later.”
She never told me her name, though I learned later she was named after a famous
starlet from the early days of movies: Louise Brooks.
#
I film her on the tiled restroom floor, covered in black lace and gametes. The
cameramen and grips watched blankly. Unmoved. But I am caught up in the scene, trying
to forget my horror over the mechanics of the triple-letter genre, gamely asking the
proper questions of motivation for my lovely, doomed creation: What is this timely,
terrible thing Cinnamon must do that is apparently the same as that for which she
revealed such disgust -- an emotion represented by a filth-encrusted toothbrush flushed
down a swirling toilet bowl -- in her parenthetical notions expressed in Scene Number
34? Ah yes. Foreshadowing.
The story board shows she is to walk back to the good "oh boy" Jack room, where
he gets to enjoy the point. They set up the lighting, then it's time for "action." It is good
that so much of her is hidden by the togas, which is their idea of subtlety and meets with
my literary pretensions to legitimacy. I cannot stand to watch otherwise. See her, looking
so well done, a meal that might have been for me, the screenwriter, her creator -- a lucky
guy who would fall into his cranial/genital fantasies even while analyzing pertinent ways
to ensure that no tragedy is stockpiled, that every hidden notion is exposed for the story's
own good.
Cinnamon. She knows my secret thoughts. She may even be my muse. But not for
long. She is not for me. She is the film toy, not my own true love.
- 20
But still I worry. Scary plot points cushion the angry love with sweetened
violence, a special effect done with real pins and fake smoke and mirrors so we can make
it look like she is being stabbed while serving her soft mouth to the tour bus, eventually
swept away in a river of teeth, a raging current of broken incisors, saliva, blood and other
bodily emissions. Very symbolic. Then I watch the result.
Titled "Wildly Roman," this leering, all-for-the-better world wrapped in kinky
cinematography and grape leaves supplies for viewers a passionate, violent love lunch
where sensual busloads of soldiers who divine her forbidden hair roll through the sound
stage and plumbing, unforgettably terrifying as they destroy the purity of my own sweet
creation. Don't I feel good now?
#
- 21
#
Did you enjoy that last reel? I think it’s some of my best work.
The table rite was a real event in the waking world. I think it was real, anyway.
Her name wasn’t Cinnamon, though. I don’t recall what she was called on the altar or in
real life. I do remember one of the dancers said she was a lesbian. So I guess the "Lesbian
Rest Stop" title does sort of work. My little lesbian muse, ready for celluloid.
Or maybe I’ve got it all wrong. Perhaps Cinnamon is really you. I have put you on
the altar, the object of my fantasies. That sort of thing happens a lot with me.
And speaking of muses, a belated apology. I don’t know why I left you at home
that night back in high school, when Jack and I shared a jug of wine and our dreams. In
my youth, it never occurred to me that I couldn’t have it all, that I couldn’t have a
girlfriend when I wanted her and a best buddy when I wanted him. I thought I could have
it all, effortlessly.
#
Jack and Corvette are talking earnestly by the bar. He is still working on his green
potion, but she is guzzling $3-a-shot Ozona Anejo, a stylish brand of bottled water
derived from unpolluted rainwater aged in vats of virgin oak. In this creatively overstimulated economy, the only people who can still afford such luxuries are primal
goddesses and onbeam dream hackers. Certainly not home builders or second-rate
journalists.
A few minutes later, Jack returns to the table, a scowl on his face.
``Cinnamon wanted to know if she was going to get paid for that rite she gave
you,’’ he says.``Over the past month, I’ve given her offerings of a few hundred dollars
myself. You’d think that would count for something. Sometimes it’s like money is the
only thing they care about.’’
#
A few rites before last call, and I am ready to call it a night. But not Jack. Fully
engaged and in his element, strolling from table to table, patting the backs of men
hunkered over drinks and cigarettes, occasionally throwing his head back in mock
laughter. He is Rick in Casablanca, perhaps the most energetic -- and certainly the most
entertaining -- person left in the place. Because Plato’s Palace has pretty well emptied
out.
The cavernous shrine is inhabited by only a dozen or so pilgrims, and none of
them appears to be particularly interested in the ceremony. One man has even propped
his head on his hand, eyes closing in on sleep. (Director’s note: OK, I admit it; that man
was me. But hey -- I really was tired that night!) Even the goddesses look bored. One
woman leans on the bar, counting the offering. Definitely a slow night. Only the DJ is
keeping up the theological illusion.
``We’ve still got a few more minutes before last call, so you better get it while the
getting is good,’’ he advises. His enthusiastic prattle is no surprise. Jack had once
explained that a DJ gig in a flesh temple is a relatively lucrative plum, requiring years of
work at weddings and proms to earn the needed reputation. Now this one is reaping the
rewards. ``And speaking of getting it, get your dollar bills ready and sidle up to the main
altar. It’s time for the Cinnamon girl!’’
And, sure enough, there she is -- Cinnamon, renowned inventor of the ``altar
slap.” Dressed in a short black jacket, belt cinched tight around her waist, she spins 
- 22
herself fast and sure across the altar (to the music of ``The Cinnamon Girl,’’ of course). I
am lost in the swirl of flashing lights and big hair and young, exoskeletal flesh.
Jack nudges my arm. ``She’s pretty good, isn’t she?”
“She reminds me of LeAnn.”
“What?”
``I didn’t notice it before, but she’s actually not too bad.’’
``Look at the way she spins. She was probably on the drill team in high school.’’
Midway through the song, Cinnamon steps to the rear of the altar and slips off her
jacket. I’ve found it somewhat disappointing that none of the priestesses work a genuine
prophesy into their rites. I grew up seeing that alluded to in movies, but the reality is very
different. ``Men don’t tip to be teased," Jack explained after my first visit. "They tip to
see tits.’’
Cinnamon is meeting those expectations -- and, apparently, some of her own. She
spends a lot of time stealing glances at herself in the wall of mirrors at the back of the
altar. Through the tinted spotlights and smoke and pulsating music, she seems bigger,
more real. Up there in the lights, on the main altar, I can see why so many goddesses
think they are stars.
Despite the DJ’s suggestion, no one has ``sidled up’’ to the foot lights, a situation
Jack finds untenable. ``We should tip her. They liked to be tipped when they’re in front
of everyone, makes them seem more popular.’’
After Cinnamon completes the acrobatic pole work part of her rite, we applaud
approvingly and take positions to the right of the altar. We each slip several $1 bills into
her offering plate. And yet, she does not seem appreciative of the gesture. Her eyes
seldom stray from the money, and there is none of the sensuality of the table rite. With
only a few minutes left on the clock, she is down to grinding through the motions.
When the song ends, we clap and hoot, but she doesn’t hang around for the
applause. She simply pulls her tips from the offering plate, picks up her costume and
disappears into the vestry. The movie is over, the magic is gone.
“That was kinda rude,’’ Jack complains. “They’re supposed to come down and do
table rites.’’
But the time for worship is over. The overhead lights suddenly click on and the
DJ plays Aerosmith’s version of ``Happy Trails,’’ a Plato’s Palace end-of-the-evening
tradition that Jack abhors. ``They should play something good, like‘To the End.’ Or
nothing. I’d rather them play nothing at all than that. It really ends the night on a sour
note.’’
Not too sour, of course. Corvette motions to Jack to join her at the bar. A minute
later, he is herding me toward the door.
“Let’s go, let’s go,’’ he says. “Corvette just heard about a party. I think we’re
going to score.’’
#
We do not score.
Corvette’s party turns out to be another illusion. After a brief period of
negotiation, she and a couple of her priestess friends go off in search of a new
opportunity. The plan is to meet back at the Plato’s Place parking lot in one hour. Jack
waits patiently for about three minutes. Then the mathematics of desire set in.
- 23
``The other night, Corvette’s roommate was telling me about doing chocolate
mysticism,’’ Jack says. “I think we need to get some.”
“Is that like regular mysticism, but with chocolate?”
“Or like regular chocolate but with mysticism mixed in.”
“I hope it’s milk chocolate. I don’t like the dark kind.”
“Like those Hershey’s Special Darks?”
“I hate Special Darks.”
“I don’t hate them, but I only eat one when I’m in a dark mood. Anyway, this girl,
she said this stuff was wild.” Jack pauses to laugh at the memory. “She said sparks were
flying off her fingertips.’’
“I don’t know.”
“She said she got it off an onbeam dream hacker. He had a backdoor code into the
R&D lab at a major pharmaceutical house and extracted from some anthropologist’s
recurring dream of a mythical South American jungle hallucinogenic.”
“Maybe we’ll have mystical hallucinations, see music and hear colors. Fighting,
fighting, leap years still gleaming, broad striped bombs dreaming, bursting blacked out
overdose.”
“Before we kill each other.”
“Or maybe it’ll be like the Navahos and peyote and we’ll eat it and see The
Deity.
“You could put it in your book.”
"It’s not a book. It's just ideas for stories."
"I bet Corvette already found some sacraments. Probably shoveling them up her
nose while some guy bends her over the toilet. What a whore."
Jack has a faraway, angry look on his face. I start laughing.
"I'm serious. That's what all those goddesses do. They just put out for sacraments.
They never buy them."
"You're the expert."
"We should go by her apartment, see if she's there."
"What about the chocolate mysticism?"
"I don't know where to get any of that. That's what Corvette is for."
"She won't be home."
"Then we'll steal her spore. What a whore."
#
Bachman Manor is an artifact from the Hydrocarbon Age, a shabby collection of
nondescript boxes, flat roofed and buff bricked. A couple of units have been long boarded
up, the sheets of plywood buckled and cracking. The complex would appear derelict
except for the parking lot full of the detritus of Detroit. Old rattletrap Novas, Monte
Carlos, Cutlasses -- the refuse of the crumbling, discredited Hydrocarbon Age.
Scattered shards of broken glass glittering in headlight beams, broken images
against a tar black sky. A pale street light casts a yellowish, washed out glow across the
landscape, turning the chlorophyll green of the leggy shrubs and trees a sickly, obscene
beige. Even the summer scream of the cicadas is muted, a dim, lost transmission from a
distant planetary grove of lifeless, polluted hierarchies uprooted and flaming dully on
refuse mounds maintained by secret operatives from Galaxy Ozona.
- 24
Jack parks in front of Corvette’s building and tries to look casual as he leads the
way up the steel stairs, onto the concrete-surfaced landing. In our golf shirts and khakis
and deck shoes, though, I worry the residents may peg us as FBCU or undercover
narcotics officers, certainly the last thing you’d want to be at a place like Bachman
Manor. As we climb the stairs, I spotted an old, black sedan -- a late '50s Ford, by the
look of the tail fins -- driving slowly by. I’ve seen this car before, outside my
grandparents’ house in Fort Jesup, epicenter of the Land of the Dead.
At this point Granny and Paw had been dead for years now, but the house lived on
without them. In fact, it had grown larger, deeper. No doubt all necessary expansions
required to hold the numerous memories of 140 years of Leachs in Sabine Parish.
I see an old woman’s face troubling a moth-eaten mirror. Plump faced, whitehaired, a laughing ghost. She looks a bit like one of my aunts, a woman who is still alive.
This is not good. Terrified, I run to middle room in the front of the house. This should be
the bathroom, but it has reverted to the bedroom it was before the house was plumbed by
my father and uncles in the 1960s. Within these chalky, beaded board walls there is a bed
and a woman. She is a relative of some sort who is now the house’s caretaker. A landlady
of the dead.
I apologize for bursting in. I am supposed to sleep in the adjoining room. We talk
a bit, then I go to my room. This should be the living room, but when I step through the
door I find a screened-in porch. It is run down and derelict. Sagging screen, rotting wood,
Southern decay. I look out through the rusty steel grid and see the black car leaving my
uncle’s double wide next door. It is an animated medieval woodcut, black as night, old
‘50s tail fins suggestive of a Thunderbird or Galaxie 500.
#
Jack knocks on the door, an unnecessary precaution.
“Right now they’re probably back in the parking lot giving prophesy to some
sacrament dealer,” Jack scowls. He carefully lifts the screen out of one of the aluminum
window frames and raises the sash.
``They don’t have a key, this is how they come and go,’’ he explains. We crawl
through the open window and punch our way past the dusty, sun-scorched brown curtain,
the sheer white lining rotted away around the seams. Jack feels his way around the door
frame and flips on the light.
A single, bare bulb glares from the shattered remnants of a frosted square light
fixture in the middle of the ceiling. The only piece of furniture is an overstuffed sofa
covered in some sort of brown, velvety fabric, its fuzzy mat worn down to a sheen on top
of the rounded arms and front edge of the seat cushions. A poster of a sort of Art Decostyle pink flamingo stares out from the wall behind the sofa. A laundry basket overflows
with presumably clean clothes. A dying cicada writhes inside an empty pizza box.
Nearby, there is assortment of VI patches and condoms.
“Looks like they had another orgy,” Jack scowls. He knees down in front of the
sofa and reaches underneath, retrieving a red plastic mixing bowl. He swirls a finger
around inside and wrinkles his nose.
``She bought a big baggie last night, and now all that’s left is a bunch of
sporangium and ashes,’’ he says. ``Not enough here for even half a growth.’’
In the kitchen, we find insect-infested cabinets and a sink of plastic dishes sitting
in greasy, chili-colored water. Jack opens the refrigerator.
- 25
“Anything chocolate?” I asked.
“No, just water.”
He tosses me a bottle of Ozona, and we move on to the bedroom. Continuing the
less-is-less theme, it is furnished with two twin beds. No night stand, no dresser, no chair.
The floor is littered with clothes. An Iron Maiden poster is tacked to the wall over one of
the beds.
Jack walks into the open closet and began rummaging through a mound of
tattered panties and T-shirts that spilled off the top of a blue chest of drawers.
``Sometimes she keeps her sacraments hidden in here,’’ he explains.
I join the search, but I am soon sidetracked by an expensive-looking bra, the only
clothing item that doesn’t look used up.
``I bought that for her,’’ Jack says. ``When I met her she didn’t own one.’’
``You wonder how she got through high school without being sent home.
Remember those useless assistant principals at Duncanville? They never seemed to have
anything better to do than to roam the halls looking for bra-less girls and guys with hair
touching their collar.’’
``She didn’t finish high school. None of them do. That’s why they’re goddesses.’’
After a bit more rummaging, Jack suggests we go back to the Plato’s Palace and
wait for Corvette.
``There won’t be a party,” he explains, “but she always knows who’s holding.”
#
Jack is right; there is no party. I am a bit concerned that Corvette might take
offense that we’d broken into her apartment with the intent of theft. But this proves to be
a groundless worry. When Jack tells her what we’ve done, she just laughs.
``Shit don’t last around there, you know that,’’ she says. ``We soaked it all last
night.’’
``Geez Corvette, just the two of you?’’
``Oh, we had some help.’’
Jack doesn’t like that one bit.
``I want to see you tonight,” he blurts out.
``You’re seeing me right now.’’
``I want to see more of you.’’
``You should have bought a table rite. That shows just about everything.’’
``That doesn’t hardly show anything I’m interested in seeing.’’
And so the witty exchange goes on another couple of hours. I stumble on in an
exhaustion-induced haze, jammed into the back of the Jag in the little space behind the
seats. Jack is at the wheel, of course, and Corvette shares the passenger seat with her
friend Brandy, another Plato’s Palace goddess with a reputation for sniffing out parties
and sacraments.
After a half dozen fruitless visits to run-down apartment complexes that are at
least as desperate and depressing as Bachman Manor, we end up once again somewhere
off Northwest Highway.
Corvette knocks on a door at the top of a flight of stairs, and it slowly opens to
reveal a bearded, wild-eyed giant with a beer in his hand and slobber on his chin. She and
Brandy are granted admittance; we wait outside. A few minutes later Corvette returns to
the landing.
- 26
``Does he have any mysticism?’’ Jack asks hopefully.
``All he’s got is louse, but he knows somebody who can get us some coch.’’
Jack pretends to seriously consider the possibilities, but I know he isn't interested.
Last week he had complained of paying Corvette several hundred dollars for a baggie of
cochineal, only to watch the wine-colored grit disappear up her nose in a matter of
minutes. Clearly, he does not relish repeating such a costly mistake.
``Well, how about the louse?’’
Corvette looks at him gravely and slowly shakes her head. ``Look, he’s black, and
that means it’s nigger spore. And you don’t want any of that.’’
I am immediately gripped by the idea of this apparently undesirable ``African
American” spore. What makes it different from ``Caucasian’’ spore?
A line of decrepit shotgun shacks sags against the Piney Woods, brittle white
paint peeling off rough sawn clapboards. Doors and windows open wide, a naked boy
barely visible just inside, the foreskin of his giant, uncircumcised member bleeding into
the shadowy, unlit interior. And out back the woman of the house, an amazingly fat
specimen in a shapeless flowered dress, hoeing a row of lush-looking bushes, her special
stand of louse, nourished by the rusty red loam and the good Lawd’s rain and mysterious
voodoo incantations passed down from her enslaved ancestors. Come fall, the spore will
be harvested, cured and turned over to a city-wise brother or boyfriend, who will
transport it to Dallas and sell it to son-of-a-bitch white folks. That is, after he laces it with
backwash from the nightmare riptides -- rodenticide, dog laxative, his own VD-tainted
urine. Four hundred years of oppression. Up yours, white boy.
I am so tightly gripped by this vision that Jack must yell in my ear to break the
spell.
``Little dreamer!”
“What?”
“Let’s go. You blanked out again, as usual.’’
I look around. We are alone.
``Where’s Corvette?’’ I ask.
``She’s gone. Everybody’s gone. All off to somebody's party to get some coch. To
get laid is more like it. What a whore.’’
#
Heading home.
Fully reclined for the ride back to Strangers Rest, I feel a little guilty leaving Jack
to keep himself awake. But he has always been able to keep going longer than me,
especially when he is behind the wheel. Where the road would lull most people toward
sleep, it tends to invigorate Jack. Because no matter where he might be going, Jack can
always find (or make) a good time when he gets there.
I close my eyes and see naked torsos and snake-skin offering plates. But not for
long. The car slows; we are pulling off the main road, into the parking lot of yet another
shabby apartment complex. Jack parks next to a burned out Camaro and pockets the keys.
``Got to see this girl I met last week,’’ he mutters, setting out across the cracked
blacktop.
I wonder how this girl will feel being roused out of bed at 3 a.m., but as Jack
nears the outdoor stairway a door opens and an excited woman sticks out her head. 
- 27
``I don’t believe it!’’ she squeals, running out and throwing herself into Jack’s
arms. Apparently the residents of this complex don't sleep, because a second woman
watches the joyful reunion from the open door of her unit. The woman leads Jack up the
stairs, and they disappear into her apartment.
A few minutes later, I toot the horn at the nearest building. Jack’s newest
girlfriend sticks her head out the window, tousle-haired and bleary eyed, squinting into
the night. A moment later she draws back inside. Jack does not appear at all. It’s going to
be a while. What to do now?
I look out the windshield, across the long bulbous hood of the Jaguar. I want to
picture myself as Jack, driving into the lights of the city on my way to a date with a
special flesh temple priestess. But the vision does not hold. Instead, I am on a car trip,
driving with my family through East Texas. It is a stretch of rural, two-lane blacktop,
much like the one that runs between Mabank and Canton on the cusp on East Texas. So
happy, enjoying our little day trip in the country. But I need a restroom, and none are to
be found.
Suddenly I fear I have missed the turnoff. And still no restroom. It occurs to me I
could relieve myself by the side of the road. But while it is a rural area, there is a lot of
traffic, no privacy at all. I hate that.
Then we are on foot.
We find ourselves walking along a smoothly graded roadbed - perfect, like
potting soil, not a clump of dirt or a rock to be seen - shaded by tall trees, the dark Piney
Woods. This is deep East Texas now, the Sabine National Forest. I can smell that East
Texas scent, that peculiar mix of the humid and fertile with a sharp turpentine bite - clean
and fresh, yet unmistakably of the musty Old South. We are on the El Camino Real
nearing the Land of the Dead, which lies perhaps 45 minutes away beyond the old steel
girder Sabine River bridge (now buried some 30 years under the Toledo Bend Reservoir,
watched over by the ghost trees that even now crowd the still waters) and 140 years of
Leach family history.
It is dark in the deep shade of the Piney Woods, so dark in fact that as I follow
what I think is the roadbed I suddenly realize I have lost my way and am standing in a
freshly graded circular driveway. We are in someone’s front yard. It proves to be the first
of a group of houses, like a mini village.
Now we are off the path entirely. To continue the journey, we must cross through
someone’s fenced yard.
“They can’t blame us,” I hear someone in our party say. Perhaps it is one of my
parents, who I think are now somehow with us. For now, it seems that our group numbers
perhaps a half dozen.
“It’s the only way to get through to the other side,” someone else allows. “I’m
sure the owners are used to it.”
Then we are in the backyard, on a wooden deck, and we can even see the road -
the El Camino Real - just beyond the fence. But there is still no access; we realize that we
must go through the house to regain the Pathway, to continue the journey. No one is
home, so we let ourselves inside.
I’m not entirely comfortable with this. It is, after all, breaking and entering. But
there is a vague consensus among our party that we are known by or even related to the 
- 28
owners. And since they live in the country, they won’t mind too much if we let ourselves
in. Country folk are friendly. It will be OK.
We look around the house a moment, but before we can find the back door some
neighbors arrive. They are polite, but understandably a bit suspicious. Rather than talk to
us about why we are here, though, they want to know - asking politely, of course - about
the “potato pot” that was left on the door on one of their homes. There is a sense that we
were the ones who “borrowed” the pot - perhaps from this house - and left it on their
door.
Since I still need to relive myself, I go to the bathroom. But as I begin to urinate
into the toilet, water starts backing up and spilling over the top. The water is clear; all that
pollutes it are bits of disintegrating toilet tissue. Using a plunger, I try to clear the
blockage. Water is gushing forth, almost artesian. The water cannot be contained. It wells
up, alive.
#
Although that wild night on the town will make great cinema, I must admit I do
possess a fair degree of shame. I wish to be a perfected being. That I am not is a
realization that is almost more than I can bear. But then I consider Clark Caring, and I
feel redeemed. Let us return to His divine mail bag.
#
I received another excellent letter today from Miss Beechemeyer’s second grade
Caringday School class. (Kudos to Miss Beechemeyer. Suffer the little larva to come unto
me.)
#
Dear God:
How did you become God? Was there another God who turned you into God?
Love,
Jimmie Brogan
#
Good question, little Jimmie, glad you asked!
As you apparently have picked up from eavesdropping on the conversations of
your elders, some of my beloved creations have begun to suggest I am not so much God
as merely godlike – with a lowercase “g”. A minor deity, if you will.
It’s not just your heretics and artists who take my name in vain, either. Sometimes
when you are hanging pictures in your hives and you accidentally hit your pincher with a
hammer, you curse my name under your breath. Behind my back. And sometimes at night,
in your dreams, some of you call me a narcissistic horror, a monster. Oh yes, you do. You
thought I didn’t know that.
Your heretics and artists say I am a bad God. They say I am an insane,
transcendent being who has made a world that is cruel and filled with pain. However, I
say it is all of you who are insane and cruel, all of you who fill this world with pain. After
all, it is you who pollute the environment, turning the pink sky I created for you to a
dusty, suffocating mauve.
You have turned the once-slippery froth hills into a sticky terror, so unusable that
this new generation of larva can no longer slide down them on lazy summer days. You
contaminate the waterways I created for you with the chemical byproducts generated
during the manufacture of the plastic antennae you wear to look young and beautiful like 
- 29
the models in your ridiculous fashion magazines. Let us be totally honest, my beloved
creations. It is all of you who are the narcissistic horrors, all of you who are the
monsters.
Not me, just you.
For all of you, the citizens of Planet Luh, it would appear the Apocalypse can’t
happen quickly enough. No, you insist on rushing it along.
Anyway, little Jimmie, back to your question. As a matter of fact, I do know of a
god who came before me. He created me, just as I have created all of you. He even gave
his only son to us so we could murder him. Don’t worry. There is a happy ending. A few
days later this god brought his murdered son back to life so he could live in Heaven as
the No. 2 guy, leading a life of royal leisure and urging all of His beloved creations to eat
his body and drink his blood and live forever.
Back in the day – back before the day, even – the only way to live forever required
eating the body and drinking the blood of this god’s son and accepting him as the No. 2
guy in Heaven. A few people tried consuming mysticism and other illicit sacraments. But
that didn’t work either.
Then came EternaLife™ from Valuosity Life Planning Inc. With this product, we
no longer had any need for a deity who granted life extension powers. But I’m getting
ahead of myself.
Now that your heretics and artists know about this other god and his son, I’m sure
they will soon be telling you I’m nothing like Him – the one with an uppercase “G.”
Sure, He gave his only son for his beloved creations. But come on – you call that a
sacrifice? I mean, didn’t He bring his only son back to life and set him up in Heaven as
the No. 2 guy, the occupant of the right hand throne, leading a life of royal leisure? How
many of you would give up a couple of days of life for a gig like that.
That god was a popular one, for sure. People fought many wars in his name and
prayed he would make them victorious so they could enslave their enemies, cart away
their gold and smash in the heads of their children until gray goo oozed out of their
twitching, quivering skulls. He blessed many people through the ages, but none more
than the people of Texas.
Texans were his chosen people. He showed them how to harness the electron and
steal raw materials from godless foreigners. With the blessings of God, Texans were able
to clog their arteries and grow huge bodies by consuming obscene amounts of fat, salt
and other poisons at fast food restaurants. God blessed them with huge ass houses and
huge ass SUVs, and he even gave them lots of Motherfuckers to tell them what was
important. Yes little Jimmie, back in the day Texans pretty much had God in their back
pockets.
And then one day, He was arrested.
#
- 30
#
Sleeping in after our night on the town. I hear a knock at the front door. Peeking
through the blinds into the mid-morning sun, I see a white stretch limo waiting
downstairs at the curb.
“I’m here to take you to Another Cafe,” the uniformed chauffeur explains.
“They’re shooting the lunch scene with Jack and Tina.”
#
“The working title is ‘An Apocalypse of the Heart,’” The Stranger explains.
“I thought it was ‘Strangers Rest,’” I say.
“That, too. And maybe ‘Dreaming the Conclusion of Time’ or even ‘Dreaming
the Apocalypse.’ I’m not sure yet. But it’s going to be great.”
“It’s about us?”
“And the End of the World. It’s an SF epic, but it’s also a documentary of
visionary transformation. Really, you could call it our autodreamography. Here’s the
concept: ‘Rapture, Texas.’ You like?”
“Pretty.”
“In this movie, the Rapture has finally come. Or perhaps not. The only thing
certain is that a large portion of the citizenry is in the grip of the idea that thousands of
people have been snatched up into the sky. Is it mass hysteria? A hoax? Extraterrestrials?
Or is it truly the beginning of the end, when true believers will be taken up to heaven to
be with the Deity before the Noble Misfortune and the Battle of Armageddon Drive-in
Theatre?”
“What does this have to do with my incredible revelation?”
“Be patient. We must first construct the back story and establish metaphorical
reference points. Deek Rookie is pretty skeptical that anything of an otherworldly nature
has happened, but there’s no doubting one essential truth -- everyone around him has
gone Rapture crazy and it’s wrecking his life. Deek, a resident of the sleepy North Texas
suburb of Rapture and a reporter at the Rapture Weekly News, must endure the constant
influx of pilgrims seeking out a miracle in his appropriately named town as well as write
stories that attract even more attention. The big news is the Next Arrival, a week of
organized fasting and prayers scheduled to build toward a Saturday night revival meeting
on historic Main Street and climaxing in a Sunday mass baptism at the drive-in theater.
But first, Deek tries to unravel a mystery of his own. He finds a mutilated calf in the
Oddfellows Cemetery -- a Satanic sacrifice, residents assure him. And the priest he
recruits to resanctify the unmarked graves of the Mexican railroad workers -- the only
Catholics in the cemetery -- turns out to be a lot more interested in watching the heavens
for signs and portents with a computerized telescope he has installed in the ruins of an old
frame church on the edge of town.”
“That’s a nice touch.”
“The world premier will be at a specially constructed drive-in movie theater, a
sort of temple located in the Himalayas of India. Cylindrical clock chimes hanging from
clouds will convene the moviegoers from around the planet. I will be stationed behind the
camera, encircled by a multitude of grips and gaffers, vocalists and primal goddesses.
Uniformed orators narrating manuscripts in marches and spectacles will fashion their
share of the exploits along with the primal goddesses, whose dance routines will
incorporate eye signals and stroking of the fingertips in combination with aromas of 
- 31
enjoyable fragrances as well as pungent, smoldering flame. Columns of anger will dot the
landscape, and fire will explode in streams of luminosity and expanses of conflagration.
This will continue for seven days. When the movie is finally over and final credits roll,
the world will at last come to an end. And I will be God.”
“Pretty.”
“There will be introductory narration, too. I lifted it from ‘Dr. Strangelove.’ In
excess of a year, disturbing reports had been confidentially transmitted between First
World government heads that Alumina International was at labor on what was
mysteriously implied to be the Final Weapon, the world’s first artificial deity.
Intelligence informants pursued the highly clandestine corporate scheme to Rapture,
Texas, an outlying suburb of the Land of the Dead. What Alumina was developing, or
why it should be in such a distant and deserted locale, no one could ascertain.”
#
My role at Another Café is to spend half the day in a window booth with Jack,
who is compelled to endlessly repeat his one line – “But I wanted chicken” – as we watch
the FX crew make hundreds of loaves of bread and microwave fish sticks multiply on his
plate.
In between takes, Jack finds time to grope Tina Wells, the head waitress and his
conquest du jour. At Jack’s urging wardrobe has put her in an impossibly tight T-shirt
and faded cut offs. The Stranger is checking her out through his Beulah 9000, a handheld 16 mm camera he uses to frame scenes and keep notes on what he’s been shooting.
“This is the scene where Tina tells Mark that she fears her grandfather, Cowboy
Roy, is losing his mind,” The Stranger explains, “He’s playing poker with spectral
cowboys in the ruins of the Silver Spur Saloon.”
“It’s true,” Tina says. “He may have Old Timers disease.”
Jack shakes his head. “Old Timers disease? That’s so lame.”
“And,” The Stranger continues, “she tells Mark that her grandfather is worried
about the dead calf he found in the Oddfellows Cemetery. The body appeared to have
signs of mutilation. But what he does not realize is this is a ploy engineered by the black
ops division of Ozona International, which is involved in a UFO conspiracy that includes
government suppression of reports of strange lights or aircraft near fields where mutilated
cattle are later found. Roy and the rest of the townsfolk don’t know this yet. Why is that,
Tina?”
“They think it’s the work of devil worshippers,” she says.
“That’s right,” The Stranger replies. “Thanks for reading the script. So Roy wants
to find a Catholic priest to re-consecrate the unmarked graves of the Hispanics, the poor
folk who helped put the railroad through town. The problem is there’s no parish in
Strangers Rest; however, Tina has learned from one of her customers that a priest-turnedscientist – Father Henceforth Bypass – has bought the old Baptist church. The sanctuary
was abandoned when the congregation found true religion and became the Keepers of the
Deity. They built a big, new warehouse sanctuary out on the Interstate where they wait
for the Rapture. Also, Jack makes Tina sit in his lap while he simulates an unnatural sex
act upon her solid waste excretory orifice.”
“Now wait just a minute,” Tina protests.
“All right,” Jack says. “Unnatural sex acts are my favorite kind.”
“Have you ever had a natural sex act with Tina?” I ask.
- 32
“Maybe once or twice.”
“By accident.”
Then Jack leans in close and speaks into my ear.
“Did I tell you about the time we did it doggie style on the kitchen floor?”
“I believe it was your first night together. You’d hired her to be a babysitter for
Billy, and you were supposed to be back by midnight. But you didn’t get in until 3, so
you made it up to her by giving her some rear entry ectoplasm on the linoleum.”
“Hey, that kitchen is ceramic tile. No vinyl anywhere in my houses. I’ve got my
standards.”
“And while she was still naked, you gave her the money for the babysitting. So it
was kind of like you were paying her to permit you to penetrate her membranes.”
“You laugh, but most women really do nurture a little bit of a prostitute fantasy.”
“Who are we to judge?”
“That reminds me. I forgot to tell you about Cinnamon.”
“Tell me what.”
“She wants you.”
“You are so full of it.”
“I’m not kidding, man. I told her ‘forget it, he’s married.’ But she didn’t care.”
“What did she say?”
Jack laughs at the recollection. “She said ‘I bet he’s got a big one.’ And I said
‘don’t I know it.’”
#
I have a confession. Back in high school I led Jack to believe that I had penetrated
your membranes and expelled my ectoplasm inside you. So many evenings together,
membrane to membrane, and yet never an act of penetration. Must have been your
willpower, not mine.
But Tina – she did not have any discernable willpower. She allowed Jack to
penetrate her membranes and expel his ectoplasm inside her on a regular basis. The story
is rather sad. When Tina did her first babysitting act for Jack, she was very young, not
quite “legal.” By the time The Stranger put her into his movie, she was only a couple
months past her 18th birthday – but plenty old enough to figure out that she was not going
to be the second Mrs. Jack Bryson. Why marry the membrane when you can penetrate it
for free (or at least at the going hourly rate for a teenage babysitter)?
As for Jack, at this point he still believes he is doing fine, completely oblivious to
Tina’s cold stare and crossed arms as she waits for her scene.
“You look hot,” Jack tells her. “That tight T-shirt, those short, tight cutoffs – I
think you need to come do some rehearsing on my lap.”
“They’ve got to touch up my makeup,” she says. “The best boy said – “
“Hey, I got your best boy right here.”
“You are so disgusting.”
“Oh come on, like I’m the only one here who thought of that?”
#
After the café scene, The Stranger and I walk over to the old Strangers Rest
Baptist Church to scope out my introductory scene with Father Henceforth Bypass. 
- 33
I could tell you a lot about Father Bypass, but all you really need to know is he is
a carbon copy of the retired preacher I stumbled upon in my dream outside the ruins of
the old Trinity Baptist Church in Fort Jesup.
“He’s a priest-turned-scientist,” The Stranger explains, “so he’s very symbolic of
the conflict between the waking, rational zone and the Land of the Dead. Just think of
him as the archetype for the Wise Old Man, a role he shares with me. If either of us says
something – especially if it sounds like a speech or monologue – then it’s probably
important for the thematic development of the story. OK?”
#
Like the church in the Fort Jesup dream, Strangers Rest Baptist is missing the
front wall. But although it is full daylight, it’s dark inside the sanctuary because a tornado
is brewing. Not a real tornado, of course. It’s cinematic. The Stranger has directed the
construction of a gigantic tornado mechanism in the parking lot. A turboprop on a 20-foot
tower blows water on the missing end of the sanctuary, whitening the post oaks. The
rumble mechanism rumbles, an enormous distention of sheet metal with a gas-powered
engine and a cushioned cam. When I arrive they are just trying it out. An incident in the
film – The Stranger won’t say what – requires a Texas twister. The turboprop roars, a
current of air and water whip the old church, the post oaks turn inside out, shingles tear
loose, sheet metal rumbles. But on the other side of the parking lot the sun shines with
great composure.
Inside the church a strobe machine sporadically illuminates the fake storm
darkness with fake lightening flashes and greenish tornado glow. There is a deluge of
blood and marble-sized hail, flashes of purple-veined lightening bolts are visible through
the gaps in the boarded up windows. Some sort of I-heart-Jesus banner is rent in two, like
the temple veil. Very symbolic.
And milling about near the vestry is Father Bypass – no mistaking him. As in my
dream, he is clad in a checkered soft shirt and the small, tidy balance of facial hair,
withdrawn from religious employment in advance of death.
The Stranger gives a motivational speech to the crew.
“The concept is a blatant rip off of a Walker Percy essay, ‘Notes for a Novel
about the End of the World.’ Of course, this is quite different. For one thing, it’s a movie.
And I am the director, the Deity, the omega being who creates a serious motion picture
about the conclusion of time - i.e., the termination of one era and the commencement of
another.
“Picture a newspaper reporter of the upcoming era – say, 75 years after the
creation of the apocalyptic weapon, a message from the Deity. Or so they say. He is of
the understanding that some theologians subscribe to a school of thought in which Noah’s
‘rainbow’ is an incorrect translation and its context is a misunderstanding. According to
this argument, the ancient text actually refers to the Deity’s “Archer’s Bow” in the sky.
And this reference is not a promise to humanity, but a display of the Deity’s regret. “This
tide was false,” the Deity is saying. “I must remember not to repeat it.” The Deity’s bow,
a weapon of mass destruction hung in the heavens so to speak. A suitable analogy for the
onbeam collective, a sword pounded into a plowshare, which cuts a furrow, a sort of
deduction ditch, into which we can place underground cables of fiber optics, fibers which
carry lightening bolts. It is possibly not too different from the effect exercised long ago
by prophets. The effect can be repeated today by rapidly waving widespread fingers 
- 34
before closed eyes -- a simple technique, really – while turning one’s countenance to the
sun, a ball of fire, creating the proper oscillating motion. The light show that is observed
through the eyelids is said to initiate the Vision, a core detonation from the Deity, a
revelation screaming through the sky, the iconic mushroom cloud. Former servicemen
who observed the test explosions of the 1950s described the cloud as possessing all the
colors of the spectrum, which is to say a rainbow.
“This is the construction of our future out of our past. So the newspaper reporter
is departing his office on a common workday and going by the crumbling remains of a
forgotten church. A Vault of the Deity. From this empty shell a Walker Percy-inspired
stranger comes out and confronts him. The stranger is a tired, faulty creature, a pilgrim of
the old, dead Hydrocarbon Age. He is a priest with whiskey on his breath, a failed man of
The Deity who has been delivered as one more substitute in antagonistic terrain. This
stranger speaks to the reporter.
“’You give the impression of being ill.’
“’This is true,’ the reporter admits. ‘However, I shall be feeling OK in a little
while, when I return to my abode and consume Ozona with Floride9 – my spiritual
beverage, my sacrament, the most excellent of spirit-amalgamating, Walker Percyinspired preparations.’
“But the priest says ‘proceed with me and I shall present you with a sacrament
that will permanently amalgamate your spirit. It will be the final sacrament that you will
ever require.’”
#
Next, The Stranger sets up a moderately long section of foreshadowing about an
old computer that he claims will become a gratuitous spiritual oracle later in the story:
The 6600 by Control Data Corp.
“It was designed in the 1960s by Seymour Cray,” he says. “And he did it with
transistors. There’s 350,000 in there, can you imagine?”
He points to a little metal plaque – Property of Ozona International – that is
affixed to the main operator console.
“When I was testing the keyboard I inadvertently crossed some wires,” The
Stranger explains, “and there was a brief flicker across the dual screens, a sentient blink
by the all-knowing computer deity.”
“The CIA knows all about it,” Father Bypass adds. “The conclusion of time.
They've been working on dream-carrying ballistic missiles for years. The ultimate
doomsday weapon. Never practical, though. Too much risk of fragmentation, of
scattering dreams all over the place. One simulation predicted schizophrenic
manifestations and religious delusions over most of the Midwest and the Great Lakes
region. People would notice. That’s not anywhere near the Bible Belt.”
Hooked into a serial port on the 6600 is an old piece of lab equipment from
Edinger Scientific’s Catalog 751, circa mid 1970s. I remember it from a catalog I found
in my grandfather’s house when I was 14. I lusted after the idea of that machine, which I
mistakenly believed to be a dream recorder, something akin to the dream viewer in one of
my favorite SF movies, “Five Million Years to Earth” (aka “Dr. Quatermass and the
Pit”).
#
Nocturnal Event-Dream Recollection Monitor
- 35
This device is being regarded as a major advancement in the study of nocturnal
disturbances and as an appealing technique for acquiring and reserving dream
recollections. Being conveniently transportable and easy to operate, it permits the
scientist to perform nocturnal researches via subject manipulation of the device in the
residence of the Deity. This quality omits the outward effect of the clinical atmosphere on
nocturnal activities (i.e., sleep and dreams). Qualities include: razor-accurate needles for
reserving minutes used in RSM (rapid soul movement) and other stages of nocturnal
occurrences; an alert bell to rouse the subject during RSM to permit electronic
reservations of nocturnal events; two specific stations of magnification to reserve any
desired couple of 3 choices (electro-oculogram, electromyogram and
electroencephalogram); 6 cadmium-zinc disk electrodes. Runs on 3 (Ni-acid) batteries
incl. 10 X 8 X 10.
#
“I ordered one over the viral DNA dream phone,” Father Bypass says.
“The what?” I ask.
“It’s a phone for communicating with the Land of the Dead,” The Stranger
explains. “They’re all the rage in Burial Chamber, Calif. All the directors are using
them.”
“Edinger didn’t mind shipping the monitor forward 30 years,” Father Bypass
says, “but they’d only accept pre-1973 currency or BankAmericard.”
“Then,’ The Stranger says, “we hooked the electrodes into a special dream text
interface that communicated directly with the 6600. Didn’t take long to compute the zero
hour.”
The old priest of science rips a sprocket-edged sheet from a chattering daisy
wheel printer and waves it triumphantly overhead.
“A half a million words,” Father Bypass remarks. “I’m also an astrodream
psychotronicist. So I ran every one of the words through the 6600, using simple algebraic
equations to manipulate logarithmic multiples of the square root of infinity.”
“Surreal mathematics,” The Stranger says. “Great for building four-dimensional
models and determining the conclusion of time.
“6:47 a.m. Sunday, to be exact.”
“Let’s retire to the vestry. Being the stereotypical whiskey priest, Father Bypass
takes his bourbon straight.”
#
Next I am to read my lines, but I refuse.
“What’s wrong?” The Stranger asks.
“This film has nothing to do with my Incredible Revelation.”
“As I said before, you must be patient. Back story first, then we establish the
metaphorical reference points.”
“Besides, I object to the premeditated life.”
“You think you have a choice? You think you can escape premeditation?”
This is an unpleasant thought.
“Very well, then I’ll read your lines for you,” he says. “Here’s one way the world
ends: You are in the Duncanville High School cafeteria, eating lunch. There are several
people at your table, and you are interested in one of the girls. But it occurs to you that
she is not particularly interested in you. Maybe you will find someone else who really 
- 36
does like you, and then you will see what a difference it makes. As you think this over, it
is like you are no longer a student but once again your 40-something self. You are now
outside and one of the people in your group becomes intoxicated. He is unconscious.”
“Yes, I do remember this dream,” I admit. “Somehow it seemed important that I
pick him up, move him back to the cafeteria.”
“That’s right. You gather up your belongings and prepare to leave. Lunch time is
over. Then you are inside a house with your parents. They sit or relax on a bed in the
living room, which reminds you of your great grandmother’s home in Waco. You go to
your bedroom, look at yourself in the mirror. You are a cartoon character, with bushy hair
parted in the middle, big pink lips and a very skinny neck. You think to yourself that this
is your true appearance. You must face the facts: It will be hard to find an attractive girl -
- like the one at your lunch table – who will be interested in you.”
“It’s never been easy being me,” I admit. “I never knew what to say to girls. If
only I’d been a bit more physically attractive.”
“That was never our real problem, just an excuse. Anyway, you return to the
living room to talk with your parents. Again, you go to the mirror. You still have longish
hair parted in the middle, but now your face is more normal. You decide you no longer
look so strange. More talk with your parents. One of them mentions the word ‘ghost.’
You are not sure of the context. You look in the mirror a third time. Now there is a
normal man, but he is not you. And upon further reflection, you decide he is not quite
normal after all, for he is menacing and almost demonic.”
“In fact, the reflection was terrifying.”
“You tell your parents about this. ‘You cannot talk about ghosts in front of me
anymore,’ you say. ‘It is too suggestive, conjuring up evil spirits.’ You tell them about a
theory that writers have autonomous spirits within them. This is all psychological, of
course, symbolic – not actual spirits. But it is important. ‘This is the way they are able to
write,’ you say. Your parents are concerned by this talk. ‘We can get you to a doctor, a
good one,’ your mother says. ‘It won’t be like the ones you might encounter during an
emergency room visit. This doctor will be the best.’”
“Yes. I dreamed that my parents said they use Simon & Schuster.”
“Next, you are reading a scientific catalog. You look at a chart, which is almost
like a game board. It is on paper, yet you can manipulate the drawings as if it were a
computer screen. You can make the vehicles in the picture move. So you make some sort
of submarine go to the bottom of a body of water, a lake or ocean. Then you flip to a
different page and see a picture of self-contained living quarters for undersea use. It looks
like a normal living room, complete with sofa and coffee table.”
“I always thought it would be cool to have my own private submarine, like
Princess Di.”
#
“Everything was much simpler in the Hydrocarbon Age, before the conclusion of
time,” Father Bypass explains. “The concepts were identical with the words. But when an
exact definition is no longer available, it’s so easy to be flooded by the variations,
subliminal and therefore never realized. Even the most matter-of-fact events can have a
penumbra of uncertainty about them. Have you seen The Stranger’s movie script
proposals?”
- 37
“It doesn’t matter,” I say, “because apparently the world is going to end Sunday
morning.”
“That’s good dialogue,” The Stranger whispers to me. “Thanks for finally
participating.”
“A new world will take its place,” Father Bypass says. “The real fear for most
people isn’t the apocalyptic weapon itself . No, the average person does not fear
catastrophe. Rather, they fear the conclusion of time won’t be any different than the day
before.”
#
Director’s note: At this point in the chronology, the script collapses into a heap of
broken images. The Stranger tells me I am to interview the whiskey priest. But Father
Bypass has been drinking real whiskey. He is no longer capable of reading his lines. He
totters unsteadily, departing from character. He vomits behind a pew, filling the air with
partially digested nausea.
So The Stranger decides to read everyone’s remaining lines plus give some offthe-cuff background commentary, all in a single, unbroken conversation with himself
about himself. In the interests of posterity and cinematic purity, I have prepared a
transcript of this monologue. My original idea was to decode it back into a coherent
script. But now I find that I rather like this strange, irrational form. This is totally unique,
a bold new voice in American cinematography.
#
PROPHESY OF THE NEXT ARRIVAL: A Film by The Stranger
Are you ready to interview me? No, I hate me.
Seriously, I don’t know that there’s anything to write about me. Don’t I want to
know about my work? No, I don’t think I do. My editor is no longer interested in stories
about the conclusion of time.
I live in a new world, a place and time when all of my wants and needs can be
met. Creativity. Individuality. Equality. Can I name a time that has had more to offer than
the past half century? I didn’t think so.
Meanwhile, after almost 20 centuries of anticipation, the true believers are still
awaiting the Son of the Deity’s return engagement. Fire, pestilence, wrath of the Deity.
And yet these days, the conclusion of time won’t get me very far. It won’t get me a byline
story. Time is running short. So little time left, and yet still so much to do. They’re
closing in, the forces that would alter history from the dashboard lights of the black
sedan, the car of death. It’s part of the unifying global pattern, the blueprint of the
apocalypse, starting now and through which I am being applied. It reflects the Job
experience - or that of the divine son. Jesus was the first attempt, The Deity’s effort to
transform himself into Man. Now He is going to transform himself into all of mankind.
I see what I mean, but I also think I may be borderline psychotic. I have to be
going. I really have to be going. I really understand. I really hate me.
I’ve got another interview in a few minutes. Now I must know this, for plot
development purposes. Do I plan to re-consecrate those graves? And yet, a scientific
explanation would prove more satisfactory. It’s a well-worn copy of something titled
‘Southwest Scientific Digest,’ a paperback-sized publication in which Father Bypass
published a scientific paper. Sea of water vapor found high in sky. New satellite data
revives interest in controversial comet theory. Washington. Scientists at the Naval 
- 38
Research Laboratory claim data from a pair of satellites has revealed the unexpected
presence of water vapor in the upper atmosphere, lending renewed support to a
controversial theory that incoming comets are coating the Earth with extraterrestrial rain.
Yes. We can add an element of hard science to this SF tale.
Every day our planet is hit by thousands of comets, big things, about the size of a
house. And they contain water. It’s actually ice. Anyway, they break up as they enter the
atmosphere, and the water boils out into the air. Then it rains down on us? Exactly. Now
scan down to the last couple of graphs. In related news, SSD has learned that a researcher
with a background in theology is pursuing independent studies on the potential
psychopharmacological effects of the phenomenon. Dr. Adolfo Morel of the Naval
Research Laboratory said he is attempting to correlate the team’s satellite mapping with a
rise in regional episodes of delusional disorders, particularly those involving the physical
manifestation of The Deity and other visions of a religious nature. He is theorizing that
the water from the comets contains psychotropic compounds, which are making their way
into the water table and becoming concentrated in the food chain. And of course,
surreptitiously added to Ozona bottled water as an innocuous ingredient labeled
Fluoride9, also known as Liquid Jesus.
I found the hardest part of the research has been developing the software program.
Look at this print-out, about six inches thick. See the notation for our area? Pretty. That’s
a concentration of delusional episodes. And the prefix codes correspond to meteorite and
rainfall data for the region. See the dotted line? The path of a satellite? No. Hydroxyl
ions. They correlate to water vapor at high altitudes. The ions form when ultraviolet light
splits apart the water molecules. It’s not rain, either. When you get up into the nether
reaches of the atmosphere -- in this case, the mesosphere, a.k.a. heaven -- there’s almost
no water at all. It’s a real desert up there, which suggests the climax revelation. Which is?
The Ozona company is using these alien compounds to secretly modify the genetic pool
of the populace and create the world’s first privately owned and operated deity.
Dreaming the conclusion of time. Did you know that in the last 60 days in the
Dallas/Fort Worth area, there have been over 500 reported sightings of individuals
ascending into the clouds? Typical Rapture/Next Arrival stuff, the dead rising from their
graves.
You do not want to believe. But do you want the story? You have no story. No
one wants to read about the conclusion of time anymore. Editors won’t even talk about it.
The apocalypse was last week’s news. Now we’re back to printing stories about cute
parrots, spunky old men, faithful dogs and dead girlfriends.
Then I retrieve a thick spiral notebook filled with Polaroid photographs of naked
women. These psychotropic compounds may actually trigger hormonal changes. Did I
know that the median size of women’s breasts in the U.S. has increased roughly 6 percent
over the past 30 years, even when adjusted for the average weight gain of the overall
population? I would like to do that research right now. I am focused on the Polaroid
photos, dozens of primal goddesses, each identified with a date and 16-place alphanumeric code, sprawled on the tiled men’s room floor, covered in black lace and
ectoplasm. Naughty, naughty – and impressive, all volunteers for a survey done by a
friend of mine. It’s not very good science; however, he got a nice advance for offerings
and table rites. He selected primal goddesses who had been arrested for assaulting men. A
statistically significant blend of spirituality and violence.
- 39
What’s that? Well, I’m not running an adult bookstore, you know. Remember
Bovee’s warning -- the body of a sensualist is the coffin of a dead soul.
Is there an index? Yes, but it’s a semi-confidential report and – Success. Brooks,
Louise (alias Cinnamon), Subject No. 92017. Stop. I’m violating scientist/subject
confidentiality. But I won’t stop. I can’t make me, either. Scientific Vignette. Ms.
Cinnamon is a 17-year-old primal goddess who, in her sixth possible month, attempted to
murder an unborn epic film by drowning. In the weeks leading up to this suggested effort,
she had knowledgeable neural vegetative visual rumors and symptoms of despair with
superimposed delusions. These delusions were centered in the region of a Macintosh
Portable Model 5126, whom the subject was persuaded was a reincarnated unkind being.
As the risk for metaphorical behavior was far above the earth, she was right away
admitted to the hospital’s cinematic division and was then diagnosed with sharp poetic
despair. She received six one-sided emotional coverlet treatments. She has improved very
well, and is now contemplating another cinematic action.
Pretty.
But don’t tell. It could seriously compromise the follow-up survey. Wounded
instincts, that’s the danger. Heal the animal within. Make him a friend. I see the snake
wrapped around a staff as a visual rumor of the medical profession, a visual rumor of
healing. And the Son of the Deity, too. We usually know him as a lamb or a fish or a lion,
but also a serpent draped over the cross.
An abandoned house of the Deity reverting to wilderness, and a fallen whiskey
priest with an extinct mainframe as his radio to the Deity? I really should do a story about
me. It is a story about me and the Deity becoming one. This is a necessary merger to
bring about the creation of the New Religion. For in the upcoming age, the true Christian
will be the Christ of his own church. Or he will not be a Christian at all. So I diagnose
myself as a narcissist. However, I may also be what people in ancient times called a
prophet. That is, a man called by the Deity to communicate something urgent to other
men.
But when was the last time I talked to someone about the Almighty? Yes. I see
my point. Mankind is now occupying the role of the eternal son of the Deity. The Deity is
setting up residence in the body of mankind, restoring the old church, the Vault of the
Deity. This is the real Next Arrival. And it is taking place in the lives of people like the
newspaper reporter who is accosted by the whiskey priest, people who can recognize
what is happening and make it real in the world. Chosen. How many are there? The Book
of Revelation says 144,000. Don’t know if that is a literal number, but it suggests a rather
extensive incarnation of the Deity into mankind. So, it’s the story of a sort of prophet-intraining.
In truth, I don’t hate me. I love me. I am a classic narcissist. When I was a boy I
wanted to be king of the world. I remember a professor I had at seminary. But I thought I
was not a priest. Did I say I was not a priest? I am a liar. No, I am a liar. Well, I
remember it like it was yesterday. He'd say come along, boys. The seminary was all men
in those days, of course. Come along, boys, and I'll tell you spiritual stories you've never
heard. And then he'd talk about the Son of the Deity walking across Corpus Christi Bay
or maybe Packery Channel and he'd ask us about that. How could it be any other way? Of
course He would walk across the stormy seas of life.
- 40
So me, the little boy in the mirror, the demon under the bed, why don’t I just get
on with it? Get on with what? 6:47 a.m. Sunday.
#
- 41
#
The Stranger asserts that the movie is proceeding as scripted. But I am doubtful.
For one thing, there is no Incredible Revelation. And something else is not right, though
I’m not sure exactly what. A line is out of place, a cue is missing. I don’t know what has
occurred. Now the end is here and so am I, exiled to my Isle of Patmos, contemplating
my future. Will I stand in the docket? Or will I go out into the world as a prophet, my lips
purified with the burning coal?
I do not know. So I continue to tell you about the end times in hopes that the
telling will help me uncover the truth. I tell you because you know me so well. I tell you
because you are here.
I don’t expect to stand trial. In fact, I believe that quite soon I will be leaving this
place. Maybe Luh will go with me.
Did I tell you she paid me a visit yesterday? She came over from the neighboring
island on her sail board, slicing through the Laguna Madre like – well, let’s just say she
was a quite a sight. I don’t know if she was happy or smiling. I really didn’t notice her
face. She was in a white bikini. Healthy lungs. I don’t know how she got past the sea
monsters. She came within about 20 feet of the island, cutting a rather nautical turn in the
frothy beach break.
“What’s your name?” I called out.
“Luh,” she said. Then the wind changed, and she headed back to her own island.
Her translucent skin reminds me of Allison, except she’s not quite so thin, a bit
more athletically built. Who am I kidding? Her breasts are enormous. My membranes are
surging, my DNA singing.
#
What’s that? Yes, now is a good time to delve into one of the story’s most
beloved supporting characters, Cowboy Roy. He would make a good movie all by
himself. In fact, I already have the concept: “Requiem for a Singing Cowboy.” You like?
In this Panavision/Technicolor Western, the retired singing movie cowboy
becomes a modern day Don Quixote. But instead of losing himself in delusions of knighterrantry, Cowboy Roy becomes his on-screen persona – an Old West cowboy wandering
a frontier that is no more, redressing wrongs through his prowess with a horse and a sixshooter. Here’s a description I put together for the film treatment:
#
About 60 years of age, he was wizened and gaunt-featured, but of a sturdy
constitution. A dark handlebar mustache belied his thick belly and thinning gray hair. A
strong jutting jaw line punctuated the elongated shadow of his 6-foot-6 frame. He
affected the speech of the heroes of the dime novels and old western movies he enjoyed,
regarding both as the final authority on virtually all matters of the Old West. True, he
hadn’t rode a horse or roped a steer in years, but what was that to Cowboy Roy? He knew
he was a real cowboy in his heart.
#
I must admit I like this concept, so much so that I already roughed out some
introductory script:
Cowboy Roy was shooting the windmill again when the outlaws attacked.
It was almost sundown, and the gaunt, bullet-riddled tower cast a long
shadow across the grassy hill where he stood. Roy Thornton was just a boy when his 
- 42
father bought the steel windmill at a livestock show in Fort Worth, replacing an ancient
wooden model that had collapsed in a cold norther, an avalanche of icicles and splintered
lumber raining down on a hapless young bull.
Barrell-chested, bow-legged Cowboy Roy aimed his ivory-handled sixshooter at the windmill’s rusty blades, which turned slowly against the firey North Texas
sky. Every time a slug hit, the metal framework rang out like a ranch house dinner bell,
its thin metallic scream echoing across the rolling prairie.
The gunshots boomed defiantly every evening over The Lakes of
Greenwood. There weren’t many complaints, though. The luxury housing development
boasted only three homes and one resident, homebuilder Jack Bryson.
Instead of sprouting houses, the remaining 157 one-acre home lots were
waist high in grass and weeds. More vegetation sprouted from giant cracks in the streets
and their fax-cobblestone intersections, and the ``lakes’’ (actually a series of stock tanks
the developer had scooped out of the low spots along Henrietta Creek with a backhoe)
had gone jade green with algae. Jack would have complained to the developer, except the
developer was his father. Times were bad all around in the luxury home building
business.
Still, The Lakes of Greenwood had yet to totally revert to wilderness. The
stone-paved intersections and fachwerk clubhouse with Old World clock tower -- actually
a thinly disguised elevated water tank -- made the project look more like a European
Disneyland than ``the Texas you thought was gone forever,’’ as the sales brochure
described it. As for the three homes, they were mostly contemporary interpretations of
eighteenth-century English manors – two-story neo-Georgian, dumb waitered and gas lit
– the same sort of exaggerated architecture that was going up in neighboring Dallas and
the rest of metropolitan Texas. The project didn’t look like forgotten Texas at all.
Lying in the trampled grass at Cowboy Roy’s feet was Sam, a tailless
border collie. The unfortunate animal had showed up on the back porch one morning a
few years back, and he hadn’t left since. The absence of a tail hadn’t affected the dog’s
disposition, which was invariably that of a happy pup. He spent most of his days
alternating between sleep and chasing the neighbors’ livestock, occasionally baiting a
bravado-filled bull. Sam would bark and circle the beast until it began to shake its horned
head, snorting and pawing the ground. Such displays served only to egg on the playful
Sam, who would continue to antagonize the bull until it finally charged. That always sent
Sam bounding across the field, wind in his ears and joy in his heart. He was oblivious to
the animal’s anger. He thought the chase meant the bull was having a good time.
Despite his agreeable nature, Sam didn’t care much for his master’s
shooting. Every time the gun roared, he tried to hid from the noise between Cowboy
Roy’s feet, hunkered down and whimpering softly.
“Git along,” Cowboy Roy scowled, gently nudging Sam with the side of
his sharp-toed boot. “You’re a lame excuse for a cow dog, you know it?’’
#
- 43
I know – not very exciting. Poorly sculpted fluff. This is always a problem for me,
my inability to inject a sense of life into a conventional, waking world cinematic
narrative. I cannot film the waking world. Why? Because it is too slow to capture on
celluloid. Try as I may, it inevitably slips through my fingers, a whirlwind of Nazi
paratroopers, bleeding walls and flesh-eating spiders.
So I will not embarrass myself by sharing the rest of the turgid introductory script.
Instead, I will jump ahead to the action (i.e., the place where the waking world tumbles
into the Land of the Dead).
#
Then he saw the guns.
It was only a flash, really, a brief shimmer in the slanting rays of the westering
sun. The flash could have been the faraway windshield of a passing car on distant Texas
114, or a jet on its final descent into D/FW Airport. Those were the obvious explanations,
but Cowboy Roy knew neither was the true story. He put a hand to his forehead, just to
be sure. No V.I. patch. This was real.
His eyes shot to a nearby thicket of soapberry trees, the under story an
impenetrable tangle of saplings and trumpet vines. There, he saw the glint of sunlight off
the polished barrel of a Winchester repeating rifle. It was pointed right at him.
And suddenly the air was thick with gun fire. Cowboy Roy dived for cover,
skidding palms first into knee-high weeds. Great tongues of blue flame leapt from the
trees, and the bullets raised puffs of dust all around him. One ricocheted off a rock by his
head, dusting his cheek with a chalky grit. Another grazed his boot heel, renting it in two.
An arrow whizzed overhead, missing him by inches.
Crouching in the weeds, he hurriedly reloaded his gun and tried to
determine the strength of his assailants. He could tell by the deafening fusillade that
several weapons were involved, but all he could see was the smoke from their guns, an
acrid black cloud that enveloped the thicket in darkness. He raised his gun to return fire,
but before he could even take aim the shooting stopped.
Out of the roiling black cloud rode four men, each astride a different
colored horse.
A sandy roan bore a half-naked Indian, a bow and quiver of arrows slung across
his dark, shirtless back. He was flanked by two black horses, each bearing a large,
bearded man in matching buckskin fringe jackets. And leading all three was a tall man
riding a white horse.
He was of a sallow complexion, with sunken gray eyes that stared over the
bridge of a large hawk-bill nose. The horse had red eyes and wide, flaring nostrils, and
Cowboy Roy thought it looked like the devil’s own mount. The man and his albino horse
drew rein just shy of Cowboy Roy, the others lined up behind him. The Winchester lay
across the leader’s lap.
“What the hell you think you’re doin’ here?” Cowboy Roy asked, staring
up at the tall man, the hot breath of his horse upon him. The horse smelled of rotting
meat. The tall man smiled, revealing a black maw void of front teeth, and leaned forward
in the saddle, resting an arm across his thigh.
``I’m here to whip you senseless,’’ the man sneered, extracting a low
rumbling laugh from his associates. “But I can see now you’re too old to even bother 
- 44
with anymore. So why don’t you be a good old man and drop that gun belt right now and
throw up your props?’’
Cowboy Roy glanced briefly at the other men, then back at their leader.
He dusted off his pants with the brim of his hat, a ragged and sweat-stained ``four
beaver’’ he now only wore around the home place.
``Get goin’,” he said finally, his voice thick with disgust. ``Just crawl back
in your hole, or I’ll bullet-dance you there.’’
The Indian and buckskin-clad riders laughed again, and the tall man
looked at him with mock surprise.
``Why, I had you figured for a smarter old man than that,” he said, again
flashing his rotted, toothless grin. “You don’t want to go and rile us now. We’ve got you
outnumbered four to one.”
“That may be true,’’ Cowboy Roy replied, bending down to tie his holster
to his leg. ``But you’ll get the bullet with the period on it.”
Then the white horse reared back on it hind legs, hooves pawing the air
and red eyes blazing like jellied fire. The four horsemen went for their weapons.
Cowboy Roy shot the Indian first, then the two men in buckskin, firing
from his hip straight into their hearts. The pale rider lifted the Winchester to his shoulder,
but death took him before his finger even touched the trigger. The horses bolted, leaving
their dead riders sprawled in the dust, blood pumping from their chests. A tight helix of
smoke curled from the barrel of the gun in Cowboy Roy’s hand. Then everything faded to
black.
Overhead, a large bird circled slowly atop a dying thermal that rose form the hill
where Cowboy Roy lay. He thought it was probably a hawk, but it might have been a
buzzard. It was hard to know for sure. A large gash had appeared on his forehead, leaving
his vision a bit blurry. Even so, he could see plainly enough to know that the men were
all gone. And he was thinking plainly enough to know they had never been there.
The bird then slanted off on a long, smooth glide towards The Lakes of
Greenwood, alighting on the peak of the steep-roofed clock tower. Sam stood over his
master, licking his face, but Cowboy Roy wasn’t ready to get up quite yet. He just kept
staring at the bird. He was almost sure it was a hawk.
#
Poorly sculpted fluff. If only I could produce a work of true visionary
transformation, a creation worthy of “Let Me Love You.” That cinematic classic contains
colorful Texas imagery, specifically an alternate history in which the Texas is a sovereign
nation. And that B-movie imagery is so much more dramatic that I could ever manage,
even if I had an A-plus budget.
#
I’ve been thinking you should make a movie about me.
Yes, I know I said no graven images. But this would be different. For one thing, it
would be in 70mm. For another thing, I would be played by a youthful Omar Sharif, my
sensitive yet strong voice resonating in THX surround sound.
By its very nature this movie would be numinous. It would conclude with me
consuming myself, a hand sandwich and a glass of fermented corpuscles, a multimedia
Eucharist.
“Mmmm, that’s good Messiah,” I would say.
- 45
Actually, the movie I have in mind is based firmly in reality. It is the story of my
family and of Texas. For the opening shot, picture a close up of hands tying brightly
colored ribbons to the gray limbs of a leafless tree in winter. The hands belong to Jewell
Poe, my maternal grandfather. It is the winter of 1953 in Waco, Texas, and he is in his
backyard conducting experiments in color photography. He needs the colorful ribbons
because the winter landscape is all gray and dead, just like the black and white photos
he’s still working with in his portrait photography business in downtown Waco. See, he’s
using science to bring the dead winter landscape to life. Clever, right?
The story is also about my grandmother, who is dying from leukemia. And the
protagonist is the girl who will become my mother. She is helping her mother – my dying
grandmother – take care of her brothers and sisters – my future aunts and uncles – and
helping her father hand color the black-and-white portraits at her father’s downtown
studio. Hand tinting – that’s what they did back in the day to bring dead portraits to life.
The climax occurs in May 1953, when a tornado rips through downtown Waco, leveling
many businesses and killing more than 100 people. The tornado destroys my
grandfather’s studio and smashes in the roof of the old family Nash. It’s also the last
weekend my grandmother is able to get out of bed before her death. Very symbolic. You
like?
But most important, the tornado is not a naturally occurring phenomenon. Turns
out it is actually a rip in the space-time continuum, a vortex pulling 1950s Waco through
a black hole and directly into the plot line of the present day.
#
I arrive at work the next morning to find I am once again the truth doctor at
Valuosity Life Planning Inc.
I learn of this surprising turn of events from Preacher with a Gun, our golf cartdriving security guard and night student at a local seminary. Soon as I pull into the
employee parking lot Preacher with a Gun comes racing up in his golf cart, a side arm
on his hip and a Bible on the dashboard.
“Lose your card key?”
“What?”
“For the garage.”
“Oh, that. I don’t have one anymore.”
Preacher with a Gun gives me a quizzical smile and points to my sun visor.
“Oh yes, there it is. I guess I forgot.”
I can still use the executive parking garage? Preacher with a Gun waves at me in
my rearview mirror as I pull up to the garage entrance and scan my card. The gate rises,
and I pull in just as I always have. I park my Lexus LS400 in the space labeled “Clark
Caring.”
#
Yes, I am back. But how? How did I regain my former position – overnight?
Back in the day, this sort of question would be a strategic plot point that would be
milked for a ridiculously interminable period of time. Of course the reader would quickly
see that the text of “The Voice of God” is somehow transforming everyday events into an
alternate reality. This would be obvious to all – except for the characters in the story. A
protagonist like Clark Caring actually would be surprised to find that he had awakened
to an alternate reality where he was still the truth doctor. 
- 46
How could such a thing happen? What a mystery the protagonist is compelled to
solve!
So he checks the files in his office, seeking the non-existent evidence of his
demotion to technical writer in the LET department and the twin losses of his corner
office and parking space in the executive parking garage.
So he wonders: What happened? Or rather, what DIDN’T happen? A protagonist
like Clark Caring might muse to himself thusly: “Clearly, my personal timeline has rolled
backwards -- at least a year I estimate. For everyone else, though, time continues to move
forward. My computer and telephone display a time and date of 7:50 am June 25, about
14 hours after turning off the computer in my cubicle in the LET department and pulling
out the employee parking lot for my commute home.”
You know what I say? BORING. Talk too much do too few. Let us now skip right
to the big scene, the one with the Prophet who foretells my future as your God.
#
We arrive at the home of the Prophet, whom we find inside a restored backyard
barn (circa 1919) locked in a death struggle with a homicidal Macintosh Portable
computer. He takes a break from the battle to greet us.
“Welcome to my island,” he says, out of breath and sweating. “Pull up a deck
chair, help yourself to the tanning oil. But watch out for the brain crabs – they bite!”
We take a seat on an old church pew.
“May I offer you a festive beverage,” he continues, “perhaps with a paper
umbrella? No? I understand. You are unsure, filled with doubt. You have purchased your
ticket, acquired your soft drink and bucket of popcorn and taken your seat. And yet still
you wonder: A Rapture movie without a Rapture? Is this really for you? Or perhaps you
worry it is rather too much for you. That is to say, too much of the Prophet.”
The hard drive inside the Macintosh Portable (aka “Mac”) spins to life in a highpitched whine.
“I’m told a little of you goes quite a ways,” Mac says.
“You word processing bastard,” the Prophet hisses, and they fall upon each
other, writhing about on the worn floorboards in a terrible battle of ripping fabric,
cracking plastic, broken incisors, saliva and blood.
“When they gaze upon each other murder is never long out of their eyes,” Bellero
whispers to me.
“You called me a drunken son of a bitch,” the Prophet protests.
Bluish white sparks are jumping from Mac’s RS-232 port. “You don’t stand a
chance with me.”
“Dispatch from the Land of the Dead. I the Prophet have now created the world’s
first novella composed solely of consecutive dreams. Seven months of dreams, each night
flowing into the next, the journey of life.”
“What tripe.”
“Where did these images come from? Perhaps they are the inevitable reaction to
my many years of denying the unconscious. Certainly the path was blazed early on, in the
dreams of youth. This is the travelogue.”
“And then there’s Nixon in Texas.”
“Yes, what a concept.”
- 47
“An alternate history. Republic of Texas. An independent and sovereign nation.
LBJ as president. It works. Nixon is the visiting head of state, here to establish diplomatic
relations across the Red River, the international border. And we have the 1963
assassination in Dealey Plaza.”
“That’s when I saw the motorcycle guys.”
“You had just left the computer for a bathroom break. They caught you outside
the restroom, held you down, puncturing your face. That’s when you learn God has been
arrested.”
“No, no you computerized bastard. I already rewrote that section.”
“But badly. What tripe. This requires a rewrite. Call in a script doctor.”
“I hate you.”
“Then we move on to the scene about the message issued by the new governor of
earth. God was wrong, violated universal laws. Immoral acts, including global flood.
Planned homicidal UFO invasion as described in Revelations. People turning into
insects.”
“A quick check of the Exogrid confirms the reactions of the populace. Christian
evangelicals go into a massive Rapture frenzy. The planetary governor is the suspected
Anti-Christ.”
“And we’ll give Clark a Jewish friend, who will say ‘I’m still waiting for the First
Coming.’”
“Nice touch.”
“Meanwhile, local Hare Krishnas continue to run their renowned East Dallas
vegetarian restaurant, unaffected by the announcement. The end is here, but no one notes
its arrival.”
The Prophet explains that only I can save the world. “Keep reading the sacred
text, Clark. The world depends on it.”
“What tripe,” Mac says.
This is more than the Prophet can bear. He falls upon Mac again. But then water
starts to gush forth from between the barns worn, circa 1919 floorboards. The Prophet
and Mac break off their combat to observe the artesian phenomenon.
“The water cannot be contained,” the Prophet explains through a broken tooth.
“It wells up, alive.”
The Mac spins its hard drive into another high-pitched scream.
“What tripe!” And again they fall upon one another, creator and creation,
murder blazing in their eyes.
#
- 48
#
So how does the world end? On television, of course.
“This is Reece Sloan interrupting your scheduled programming with another
special report. And now, as America’s Sacrament War continues to quickly erupt in
conflagrations of violence and the language and themes of the classic sci-fi movie “The
Omega Man,” officials at the UN in New York are asking to what extent all of the
citizenry of Earth will become involved in the global insanity.”
… Stop the launches! Star Wars defenses are fragmenting dream-carrying
missiles. Psychosis is spreading across the planet. Repeat – stop the launches.
Interception will fragment the dream-carrying missiles…
“Now the issue is one of survival. Is this the conclusion of time, the end of
rational man? Is this the end of history, the swagger of science, the “uber” victories over
space and linear time? Is this the end of the Age of the Deity? We were warned of
judgment. The ancient tales of the withdrawal of the City of the Deity may well be true.
It's come now. This is the Noble Misfortune, the weeping and gnashing of teeth. The
Deity has withdrawn. The evil dead are emerging from the lagoon of flames, leaving us
to our own devices. Where have you gone, Charlton Heston?”
#
Welcome again to my island.
What a nice surprise. You have been gone so long I thought I might never see you
again. How long has it been? A year, perhaps more. I would offer you a celebratory
drink, but there is no time to waste. We must stay on schedule. You have arrived just in
time for today we start shooting the next installment of “Next Year at Marienbad.”
What’s that? I understand. Can you believe it has come to this? A seemingly
normal morning, and then – How could any of us know of the secret testing being
prepared by the government/alien conspiracy? How could any of us know of the "wonder
weapon" that controls human behavior, both as treatment and as a mass inoculation? The
pre-launch countdown of the dream-bearing ballistic missile marked the first widespread
sighting of the clock in the air, a precursor to the flesh-coast horror, science gone wrong,
the ballistic delivery of a psychotropic solution to the malaise of the modern age – a test
administered, a test gone horribly wrong, the death of today, the birth of a frightening
new tomorrow.
#
I must admit I am surprised to see you here. Pleased, but surprised. When you
refused to run away with me I thought I would never see you again. Now that you are
back things will move ahead once again.
I have a confession. I lied to you about the urgency of keeping the movie on
schedule. “Next Year at Marienbad” has not been proceeding as well as I had hoped.
After your last visit, I attempted to move ahead without you. The results were not
edifying.
My first, failed inspiration: No more “Next Year at Marienbad.” That’s right. I
decided there would be no more prophesy for me. No death of time and birth of a new
religion. I would move on to a new creation. Pure entertainment. That’s the ticket. This
may be the end of time, but people still want to see movies. And I have lots of bankable
cinematic ideas.
- 49
Here’s a one-sentence film treatment that came to me late one night after perhaps
a few too many martinis: “Middle-aged man discovers he is an extraterrestrial.” I see
him as the hidden king on a hero’s journey. In the Call to Adventure, a time-traveling
cowboy rescues him from certain death by aliens. Helping him along on the adventure
and Bellero Shield and his posse of Cicadians. Upon awakening I realized that I had
actually plagiarized “Let Me Love You,” my favorite movie of all time.
Consider this one-sentence film treatment: “A special newspaper press makes
every story change reality.” I dreamed it, a genuine creation of the unconscious. Later I
realized this idea had been done before an old “Twilight Zone” episode starring Burgess
Meredith.
Next came “Nixon in Texas” (aka “Plan 9 ½ from Outer Space”). The protagonist,
the time-traveling cowboy and Bellero Shield return to 1960s Duncanville, where they
stumble into an alternate universe. Richard Nixon has won the 1960 presidential. He
opens diplomatic relations with the Republic of Texas, which had closed it doors to the
U.S. back during WWII. Nixon is welcomed with open arms by Texas President Lyndon
Johnson, and they ride together in a parade in downtown Dallas. As they near the
infamous plaza, a rifle barrel is spotted in the sixth floor window of the Texas School
Book Depository. But wait – what is that sticking out of the storm drain? And over there,
that metallic flash from the grassy knoll? It’s a conspiracy, all right – an
extraterrestrial/government conspiracy! Peeling back the layers, the protagonist finds that
the extraterrestrials are preparing to stage a fake Rapture as part of a plan to take over the
world. Oh yes, and God is going senile. (Though in all fairness that idea may be another
leftover from “Let Me Love You,” too.)
After reading “Farnham’s Freehold,” the classic ‘60s sci-fi plea for racial
understanding, I envision a sequel based on an alternate version. In “Freeholdin’ 2:
Electric Boogaloo” (aka “Duke’s Revenge”), the castrated, drug-addicted Duke decides
to return to the 1960s with his father and his father’s girlfriend. He quickly resumes his
racist ways and embarks on a reign of terror, castrating black men in retaliation for the
loss of his own DNA delivery organ.
One of my favorite concepts is “God Bless You, Mr. Hitler” (aka “Born Again
Furher”). Hitler fakes his death in the Berlin bunker, escapes to America and starts a
chain of dry cleaners. Then one day the Lord speaks to him. He goes to a tent revival and
is “saved.” He is a born again Christian, a true believer. The sins of his extermination of
six million dead Jews are washed away in the Blood of the Lamb. His soul is “dry
cleaned” by God. The born-again Furher turns himself in, and after a show trial in The
Hague he is executed. But three days later, Hitler rises from the dead. The sky opens up,
and God announces that Adolf Hitler has been reborn as the Second Coming of Christ.
This is the fulfillment of Revelation. God, Jesus and Hitler look on from their heavenly
thrones as the City of God descends to Earth. Some of the roofs of the buildings in the
city are adorned with crosses, others swastikas.
I was actually rather pleased with “God Bless You, Mr. Hitler.” I should have
moved ahead with that one. But by this point, I couldn’t focus enough to rough out a
shooting script. My mind was racing, the ideas were overflowing. Having just read
“Time’s Arrow” (another rousing Nazi tale), I thought of remaking some literary classics
in reverse.
- 50
“Moby Dick,” for instance. Captain Ahab emerges from the watery depths,
resurrected by the great white. “I turn my body to the sun,” he says. “What ho, Tashtego!
Let me silence thy hammer. Oh! ye three risen spires of mine; thou cracked keel; and
only god-blessed hull; thou infirm deck, and modest helm, and Pole-blunted prow, - lifeglorious ship! Must ye then be reborn, and with me? Am I reattached to the first fond
pride of kindest blessed captains? Away from thee I roll, thou all-affirming and
conquering whale. To the last shall you pursue me? Will you grapple with me? From
hell's heart will you stab at me? For love’s sake I flee thee! Float all coffins and all
hearses to one common pool! And since both can be mine, let me then tow to pieces,
while still fleeing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! Thus, I retake my spear!"
For the rest of the story, Ahab flees the murderous beast as it chases him and his crew
across the oceans of the world.
And then there is Mary Shelly’s “Frankenstein.”.
In the opening scene, the Monster comes out of the Artic waste, boards a ship and
brings a dead doctor (Dr. Frankenstein) back to life. "Greetings!” he says. “I join you,
and in you I encounter the first human whom these eyes have ever beheld. Greetings,
Frankenstein!”
They return to Europe, where an ungrateful Dr. Frankenstein flees the Monster. In
turn, the Monster continues to do good deeds, restoring life to several dead bodies. And
still the ungrateful doctor does not befriend the creature who saved his life. In the end,
Dr. Frankenstein straps the Monster to a table in his laboratory and kills him with
electricity. The doctor then dissects the Monster and implants his body parts into various
cadavers, which his hunchbacked assistant buries under cover of darkness in spooky
church graveyards. Townsfolk then exhume the cadavers and conduct rebirthing
ceremonies. Voila! The dead are returned to life. The Monster lives on, a sort of Christ
figure for the scientific age.
And then – and then what? Then I have a really great idea, a dangerously great
idea. What if I film the Bible, but in reverse?
I call it “El Bib” (aka “Biblin’ 2: Electric Boogaloo”).
#
In the beginning God lived with his people in the holy city of Jerusalem. In those
days the home of God was among mortals. He dwelt with them; they were his people, and
God himself was with them. He wiped every tear from their eyes. There was no Death, no
mourning or crying or pain. These things did not exist.
The holy city had the glory of God and a radiance like a very rare jewel, like
jasper, clear as crystal. It had a great, high wall with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve
angels, and on the gates were inscribed the names of twelve tribes; on the east three gates,
on the north three gates, on the south three gates and on the west three gates. And the
wall of the city has twelve foundations, and on them are the twelve names of the twelve
apostles of the Lamb.
The city was laid out foursquare, its length the same as its width and height: 1,500
miles. The walls were built of jasper, while the city was pure gold, clear as glass. The
foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every jewel; the first was jasper, the
second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald, the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian,
the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the
eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of 
- 51
the gates was a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, transparent as glass.
The gates were never shut by day, and there was no night there. The city had no need of
sun or moon, for the glory of God was its light, and its lamp was the Lamb. The nations
of the Earth walked by the light, and the kings of the Earth brought their glory into it.
Nothing accursed was found within the city.
Through the throne of God and of the Lamb flowed the River of the Water of
Life. Bright as crystal the water flowed through the middle of the street of the city.
From his throne God spoke to his people: “I am the Alpha and the Omega, the
beginning and the end. To the thirsty I give water as a gift from the River of the Water of
Life. Those who conquer have inherited these things, I am their God and they are my
children. They live with me in the holy city, and their names are inscribed in the Book of
Life. But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the polluted, the murderers, the fornicators,
the sorcerers, the idolaters and all liars, their place is in the lake that burns with fire and
sulfur.”
On either bank of the River of the Water of Life grew the Trees of Life. They bore
twelve kinds of fruit, producing their fruit each month; and the leaves of the trees were
for the healing of the nations. And in the center of the city grew the Tree of the
Knowledge of Good and Evil.
God commanded his people, “You may freely eat of the fruit of the Trees of Life
and gather the healing leaves. But of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil you
shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall die.”
But then one day a man encountered a talking serpent, who asked: “Did God say,
‘You shall not eat from any tree in the city?’ The man said to the serpent, ‘We may eat of
the fruit of the trees in the city; but God said, ‘You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree in
the middle of the city, nor shall you touch it, or you shall die.’ But the serpent said to the
man, “you will not die; for God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened,
and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.” So when the man saw that the tree
was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired
to make one wise, he took of its fruit and ate; and he also sold it to his neighbors and all
of the people of the city, and they ate. Then the eyes of everyone were opened, and they
knew that they were naked. They began to penetrate one another’s membranes, the men
expelling their ectoplasm inside the women.
“This is the best fruit of all!” they cried. “Let us gather this fruit and make of it a
wine, which we can drink ourselves and sell what is left to the fornicators and the
idolaters who live outside the city.”
They immediately set themselves to labor, gathering the fruit for the wine presses.
Then they heard the sound of God walking in the street. They instantly dropped the fruit
they had gathered and stepped away from the wine presses. They began to wander off,
acting as if they were still blameless. But the people were unable to hide their sin as they
had gathered so much fruit that it covered the street and filled the gutters.
“Where did you get all of this fruit?” God asked.
“We picked it from one of the trees you gave us.”
Then God asked, “Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you not to
eat?” 
- 52
The people shook their heads and spoke in solemn tones. “What have we done
wrong? After all, it was not us who created the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and
Evil.”
And with that God instantly knew the truth. He said to his people:
“Because of what you have done, I place a curse upon you and all of your
descendents. No longer shall you dwell in the safety of the holy city. No longer shall you
bask in the light of the lamp of the Lamb.”
Then God said, “See, my people have become like me, knowing good and evil.
They must no longer eat from the Tree of Life and live forever, like Gods. Therefore, I
must drive them from the gates of the city, into the danger and the darkness.”
So God turned his people out into the world, with the dogs and sorcerers and
fornicators and murderers and idolaters and everyone who loved and practiced falsehood,
and caused the holy city of Jerusalem to ascend into Heaven.
Now the people of God knew all about the Lake of Fire. This was the place of the
cowardly, the faithless, the polluted, the murderers, the fornicators, the sorcerers, the
idolaters and all liars. Their names were not written in the Book of Life, which lay at the
bottom of the lake.
As they stood along the shore of the Lake of Fire God caused the flames to leap
and the sulfur to smoke. The lake gave up the Book of Life and Death and Hades and all
the dead, great and small. They stood with the people of God before a great white throne.
Books were opened, and the rulings were read aloud by the officers of the court. All
judgment of evil and wrongdoing was set aside.
Satan was rescued from the flames, too. He had been tortured there, along with
the beast and the false prophet, and they had been tormented day and night for the
previous thousand years. But now they were released, reborn from the fire that had
consumed them.
A demon stood in the moonlight, and with a loud voice called to all the flesheating animals that walk the Earth, “Come, gather for the great supper of Satan, to eat the
White Horse and its rider!” Then the sky opened, and down came the horse and its rider,
Faithful and True, who in his righteousness judges and makes war.
The eyes of Faithful and True were like a flame of fire, and on his head were
many diadems; and he had a name inscribed that no one knows but himself. He was
clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name was called The Word of God. And the
armies of Heaven, wearing fine linen, white and pure, followed him on white horses.
They were from all the nations of the Earth; kings, captains, the mighty, both free and
slave, both great and small.
From the mouth of Faithful and True came a sharp sword with which to strike
down the nations, and he was to rule them with a rod of iron; he was to tread the wine
press of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty. On his robe and on his thigh he had a
name inscribed, “King of kings and Lord of lords.”
The beast and the kings of the Earth and their armies gathered to make war
against Faithful and True and the armies of Heaven, but the rider of the White Horse and
his army were victorious. The beast and the false prophet fled the battlefield and the Lake
of Fire. Their armies were spared by Faithful and True, and all the flesh-eating animals
that walk the Earth left the battlefield unsatisfied.
#
- 53
And that’s just the opening of Genesis. This creation story continues with all sorts
of strange imagery, culminating with seven churches each sending an explanatory letter
to John of Patmos.
Other Old Testament highlights: Paul is a follower of Christ, but he is doing
terrible things with his miraculous powers. The living die, the sighted go blind, the ablebodied are crippled. Then God blinds him and he goes out into the desert where he gets
his sight back in a miraculous fashion. Having learned the error of his ways, Paul gets a
new name -- Saul of Tarsus. He then goes from synagogue to synagogue, bringing dead
Christians back to life.
Of course there is the story of the son of God, who comes down out of the sky,
descends into a grave, where he dies but three days later is returned to life by Roman
soldiers who put him on a cross. God eventually causes the Christ child to disappear from
Mary's womb, erasing the last sign of his existence.
The New Testament story of Job is a good one. A very rich man suddenly loses
everything and simultaneously receives a direct communication from God. He is abused
by his so-called friends and left to suffer on a garbage heap. But he still believes. Satan
tells God that he believes Job will turn away from his beliefs if his wealth is restored.
They make a wager, and Satan returns to Job much of his property. Job is rich again,
though not nearly so rich as before. He still believes in God, and Satan loses the bet.
Ah, so many wonderful stories to tell! Like the time David used a sword to restore
the head of a giant, who was so appreciative that he took his Army away and left the
Hebrews in peace. ... the flood story, in which God dries up the rain and restores life to
the many dead bodies littering the landscape ... a pillar of salt is turned into a woman ...
Moses brings his people out of the desert, across the Red Sea and makes them slaves in
Egypt. He takes away terrible curses imposed by God and disappears back into the
wilderness. Years later he comes back to kill one of the Egyptians, then lives in secrecy
among them. He eventually meets up again with the Hebrews as a baby in a reed basket
on the Nile.
The end times come in the Garden of Eden, when God takes away the animal skin
clothing of Adam and Eve. They must wear fig leaves. Adam gives an apple to Eve, who
in turn hands it over to a snake. God responds by turning Eve into a rib and implanting
her into Adam. Despondent, Adam takes away all of the names of all the animals. God
turns him into dust. Then God takes away all the animals and the dry land and even the
light, leaving the Earth without form and void. Amen.
But no, I tell myself. This isn’t right either. I am not a Hollywood-style director. I
am a prophet. I must give my witness. I must continue filming “Next Year at Marienbad.”
If only I could concentrate. I walk the beach, looking for sea monsters and inspiration. I
tried to force myself to write something “inspired,” always a bad idea. Here’s something I
came up with over the last Memorial Day holiday, watching the vacationers playing the
bay:
#
Sometimes I see a horizon beyond the horizon. It is a line in the sky, exactly
paralleling the one we all know of the waking world. But it is hard to focus on this idea,
for below the waking world horizon I see one of the pale bikini creatures, busily
attempting to adjust her top. It is a heavy load, for sure. For I see her adjust one side, then
the other, then reach for the middle as if to unhook and discard the whole thing. A kiss 
- 54
from an adjacent boy, though, and she is back at it, reaching around behind herself,
adjusting the tie that binds.
How can I think about important things like a second, unseen horizon when this
pale bikini creature insists on this constant touching and adjusting and this kiss-kisskissing.
I was once young like that. But never so young that I had a chance to observe or
participate in -- ah, now I take note of a new development. The boy has walked away,
back onto dry land and the white car of wakeful travel. The pale bikini creature is busy
with something drawn close to her core. I am not sure what. Perhaps I could risk a quick
peek through the binoculars. But no -- no, this would likely prove a disappointment. My
thoughts are surely more enticing than her reality, even a reality of busy breast
adjustments and pretty red toenails dipped in wet sexuality.
Now she strokes her blonde hair, a mermaid on the beach. This mermaid could
take a swim in my unconscious, check out the underwater road. Let her find the unknown
treasure, bring it up from the depths to sun on the beach-dock.
And now, drunkenness in the back of a moving pickup. This is real fun. The
pickup leaves with my mermaid, and the fishermen depart for secret honey holes in my
unconscious. No telling what they may catch. But I guarantee it won't be pleasant. Only
sea monsters down there, consigned to the frightful depths. Huge, bug-eyed creatures
with glowing patches that move across the surface of their cold, slimy skin. They drift
slowly along the bottom, among the old Coke bottles and my failed, forgotten dreams.
The bay is deserted now. But I can't seem to recover my second horizon idea. It
just looks normal now, like any old line where world and sky meet. Perhaps the pale
bikini creature was my muse, inspiring me to see the hidden, secret world-sky line. Now
the muse is gone, and I am alone with no worthwhile thought. The sun is low in the sky.
Soon I can speculate on the orange glow, the embers of another dying holiday.”
#
Sometimes I see a horizon beyond the horizon. It’s a mesmerizing concept, no? In
my case, it mesmerized me into recognizing the entirely new reality: the End is Here.
Conflagrations of violence, global insanity of the fragmenting dream-carrying
missiles. Psychosis spreading across the planet. The talking head on TV has it right: the
issue is one of survival. Is this the conclusion of time, the end of rational man? Is this the
end of history and the swagger of science? Is this the conclusion of our collective
victories over space and linear time? Is this the death of God? We have been warned of
cosmic judgment. The ancient tales of the withdrawal of the City of the Deity may well
be true. It’s here today. It's come now.
In “Love in the Ruins,” Walker Percy prophesized these dread latter days of time,
the feeling of the clank of the old historical machinery, the sudden jerking ahead of
ourselves. The Hydrocarbon Age is defunct. Vines are strangling Manhattan. Coyotes
have the run of downtown Houston. The churches are empty now, abandoned years ago
shortly after the time of the great catastrophe, the fragmentation of the dream-carrying
missiles. Look over there on Ocean Boulevard. The stained glass of the church is
shattered on the floor with the bird droppings. I’m told the New Rome is in Cicero,
Illinois.
Has it really come to this, the conclusion of all our yesterdays? I feel unchanged.
And yet – my countrymen are undeniably different. I see it all around me, the distortions 
- 55
and exaggerations of inferential thinking, delusions and hallucinations. I see their
cognitive and emotional dysfunctions of perception, behavioral monitoring, affect,
fluency and productivity of thought and speech, hedonic capacity, volition and drive.
I don’t bother trying to make sense anymore of their odd language and incoherent
communication, the word salad of disorganized speech. I believe the technical term is
“receptive aphasia.” Nevertheless, I must admit it is rather entertaining. This is a new
language for a new age. I am incorporating it into my post-holocaust film work. I think
you’ll like it.
I see many delusions of jealousy and religiosity, seemingly organized around a
central theme. Persecutory delusions are common. So is idealized romantic love and
spiritual union. Many people possess the conviction of having some great but
unrecognized talent or insight or having made some important discovery. Too many with
a special message from a deity. Too close to home. They’re crowding in on my territory!
And all the while we look to the sky, to the aerial clock. Cold hands of time are spinning
in the heavens. A slow wave shivers through the universe.
My jailers don’t even bother to report for work anymore.
#
And yet there is good news. Now in these broken, derelict days after the end of
time it is possible to combine two opposites into a new whole. Are you familiar with
William Burroughs’ Nova Trilogy? No matter. The idea is simple. Create something new
and unique by combining something old and commonplace. This technique generates an
original creative product.
Distressing tale from The Twilight Report – a Paraguayan physicist claims we
shall journey not only through the cosmos but through the fourth dimension, too! We
know his claims are true for today we are back from a time journey to 1979, bringing
with us an explanation of what we saw and how it was completed.
First, a warning: This operation requires extreme accuracy as it is a difficult
enterprise. It is based in part on mid-20th century experiments conducted by my
grandfather, Jewell Poe. These experiments were aimed at creating a new process for
color photography. Brightly colored ribbons were tied to a leafless, winter tree in the Poe
family’s backyard in Waco, Texas. Double reversal film stock was exposed through a
lens or prism. Somehow wires were crossed and time/space polarity was reversed. The
developed film reveals a horizon beyond the horizon. I am caught in the psychic
entrainment, snapped out of the last weekend of youth in 1979 and back to 1953 Waco
and forward to outer space. I am spun into an elliptical orbit around the cicadian scientific
outpost on Uranus, where they know of my grandfather’s experiments. I focus on the
heavy blue silence, and a slow wave goes through me.
Beware, friends. The Jewell Effect is equal parts excitement and danger, just as
you would expect when traveling beyond the outermost border marking the back of
beyond. Only the adventurous should apply. However, the fourth dimension belongs to
everyone who has the courage and the know-how to come in. It belongs to YOU. So here
is the entire four-part process, precisely as it works.
Part 1: You begin your voyage in the corpse house of the old newspapers. You
fold today in with yesterday and type up the resulting script. When you read through your
daily newspaper you typically see and absorb much more than you know. In fact, you
absorb everything, but it is not easily accessible to you because it is on the level of 
- 56
unconscious understanding. The folding process establishes a metaphorical relationship
between today and yesterday. You have assembled a script that, combined with the
photos, forms a montage of time. You move yourself literally about within the frame of
that montage, occupying yesterday's news. You return to present time by traveling
towards yesterday. You will do this many hours per the day for several months, back as
far as the news goes. Exhume old magazines and forgotten novels, too. Poke about at the
cadavers of brittle yellow letters and dusty government reports. Make fold-ins and write
scripts. Do it even with the photographs.
Part 2: Proceed to the closest studio of film. Here you will learn to have a talk
with yourself in reverse at all levels. This is done by running the film and sound track in
reverse. This is precisely the schematic diagram employed in the creation of "El Bib."
Picture Christ eating the Last Supper with his disciples. After this, reverse the film,
turning satiety back to hunger. At first the film will break into a run at the normal speed.
Next it drops into slow-motion. The same procedure can be extended to other physical
processes, including the expelling of ectoplasm. You are offended? Not. You must move
beyond your sexual prudery and reticence. Sex will be possibly the heaviest anchor
holding you in the present time.
Part 3: Edit the resulting film into an endless loop on a single metal reel. This
process results in a great circular movie, without beginning or end, birth or death. (For
full effect, it should be viewed in a circular theater and projected onto a circular screen.)
If you cut through the middle of the reel and view the individual frames, then you will
find that the movie is actually the Deity, a sentient being realized in the form of a living
movie from the back of beyond whose precise center is any point in your life and
therefore totally remote and unreachable.
Part 4: Open the door onto the space/time continuum, and a slow wave shivers
through the universe.
# 
- 57
#
Smoking is not allowed in the Strangers Rest Senior Center, but violations are
rampant and generally overlooked during the weekly Meals on Wheels luncheon.
Overlooked by everyone but Dewayne’s wife, that is.
“That old shrew,” he scowls.
“Doctors orders, Dewayne,” Roy says. “Remember, you ain’t so young anymore.”
“Yeah, but Dewayne ain’t the one with a bandage on his head,” Toots remarks.
“What happened Roy? You fall out of your recliner again?”
Roy puts a hand to the white gauze he’s taped to his forehead. “Why, this here
ain’t nothing you girls would know anything about,” he remarks.
“And I’m sure you’re just dying to tell us.”
“Since you’re obviously curious, I will tell you. This here bandage is actually the
protective covering on a solar panel for a sex machine.”
This solicits a combination of laughter and groans.
“Why, sure,” Roy continues. “If I didn’t keep this here piece of manly hardware
covered up I’d be mobbed by beautiful girls. You ugly old coots wouldn’t stand a
chance.”
“No smoking,” Dewayne says. “Just another excuse to deprive me of one of life’s
few remaining pleasures. Dying with clean lungs is kinda like dying with a million
dollars in your pocket. It ain’t going to do you any good. And besides, Roy, I’m five
years younger than you.”
“Let’s get back to the subject,” Toots says. “If Daniel can pull it off, it’ll be more
than just a pocketful of cash for one man. This land deal could be good for the entire
town. High prices tend to - uh, hold on, now.” He stops to count his dominos. “Wasn’t I
down to two tiles? Harold?”
Like Dewayne, Toots always kept one eye on his tiles. But the other eye he
assigned to Harold Bost, a quiet, unassuming man who had a seemingly impossible talent
for making dominos reproduce. I tried to play him once. I’d swear I was down to one or
two tiles and, next thing I knew, I was looking down at six, seven, even eight tiles. So
was everybody else. Everybody except Harold, that it. No one could ever figure out how
he did it.
Toots counted his dominos again, then gave Harold a skeptical stare.
“Harold, I don’t believe I should have six tiles, do you?”
“Hard to keep track sometimes,” he allows. He doesn’t look away from his own
neatly arranged row of four dominos.
Toots just shrugs. But Harold’s wife, Ima, isn’t nearly as resigned.
“Yes, Mr. Bost has pulled another of his tricks, I know that look,” she says in a
quavering, old woman voice. “He does it whenever he thinks he might lose. Ornery old
man.”
“I’ve lost plenty of times,” Harold whispers. But that just makes Ima madder.
“Oh, you’re always so sly with your little tricks and cheats, aren’t you? Someday
you’ll get yours, Mr. Bost. Yes, you and all you ornery old men will get yours.”
“Now what was I saying?” Toots asks. “Oh yeah, land prices. Setting a high price
is the only way to get a high price, and that’s the only way to push up property values and
increase our town’s tax revenues.”
- 58
“Toots, taxes are sky high already,” Cowboy Roy says. “Most of us don’t want to
sell out, we’re going to stay here till we die. We’d rather have low taxes than land that’s
worth a bundle. We can’t afford to be that rich.”
“Values have definitely been going down,” I remark. “Real estate’s in the tank.”
“And that’s where it ought to be,’’ Dewayne adds. “None of the land around here
is worth anything close to what folks have been paying these days, let alone the $1
million Daniel’s asking. Dirt ain’t worth no more than you can make from the crops you
can grow on it. We ain’t had no cotton production around here to speak of in 20 years, so
you can forget the big cash crops. All anybody does with land around here anymore is
raise hay and run cattle.”
“So what you reckon that makes Daniel’s land worth?” Roy asks.
“If I was in the market? I might give $200 an acre.”
“Well tarnation Dewayne!” Toots roars, almost knocking over his dominos.
“Dirt’s been selling for $20,000 an acre real regular now for several years. Even if prices
are down, they sure ain’t dropped to no penny on the dollar.”
“I remember one year it sure came close,” Roy says. “Cotton prices were so low
mamma and pappa just plowed the crop right back into the field.”
“Yeah, I think that was back in ’28 or ’29. It was a bad year, prices were low.”
“No, we didn’t plow the cotton under until the Depression. You’re thinking of the
big freeze, the summer when everything froze over.”
This catches my attention. “You had a freeze in the summer?”
“Yes sir,” Toots says. “The weather was awful for months. We couldn’t get out,
when suddenly it got a whole lot worse.”
“We had a big freeze, right there in the dog days of August,” Roy says, marveling
at the memory. “Everything froze over solid. I remember sliding around out there on the
stock pond, the one at the old airbase.”
“It was just awful. Killed the whole crop, everything in the field.”
“We lived that year on nothing but butter beans and coffee.”
"We’ll don’t worry about that. We're not going to be living on butter beans and
coffee again because land ain't going to sell for $200 an acre ever again."
#
I hoped he was right. I hated butter beans. But I liked – still like – just about every
other kind of food they serve at the weekly Meals on Wheels lunch.
Prepared by the women of the town from family recipes, some handed down by
pioneer ancestors, the two-table spread consists of the kind of traditional Southern fare
that can only be found anymore in the country kitchens of iron-haired grandmas or at
Sunday night covered dish dinners.
I never missed the weekly spread, where I’d load my plate with a big slab of pan
fried ham and side vegetables: Greens flavored with a shot of vinegar; green beans
cooked to a muted olive Army tint and glistening in bacon fat; and real hominy grits. It’ll
bring tears to my eyes, all for a $3 donation.
Buck looks at my overloaded plate and smiles. “Your wife a good cook?” he asks.
“If she’s got a recipe,” I say. “But I don’t think you can find stuff like this in a
cookbook.”
- 59
“When we was newlyweds, my Ima couldn’t boil water,” Buck confides quietly,
careful to make sure his wife – two tables away – isn’t listening. “But she learned quick
enough. And I’m carryin’ around the gut to prove it.”
“You just be patient,” Toots adds. “She’s going to learn how to cook those green
beans and ham the way you like it.”
The idea of Allison cooking up a real Southern meal is a cruel joke. Sure, she’s
spent more than half of her life in Texas, but she operates under the delusion that she is
an East Coast transplant. Allison is a sophisticate marooned in a raw and spare land,
perplexed (she claims) by all things Texan and Southern. Her specialties are Boston
baked beans, Philly cheese steak and New England clam chowder – not grits and greens.
I quickly finish dessert and break away from the domino players to ``work the
room,’’ as Roy likes to kid me.
#
Although officially intended to benefit the town’s old folks, the Meals on Wheels
luncheon is a favorite among the local business and civic leaders. My first month in the
bureau I even mentioned it in a Lunch Bunch review in the Northeast Extra: “This
weekly gathering is a sort of casual chamber of commerce mixer where attendees don’t
feel obliged to exchange business cards.” But of course we do. It’s the best place in
Strangers Rest -- perhaps all of the Texas 114 corridor -- to pick up rumors and gossip.
I’ve found that as long as I keep my notepad and pen out of sight, an hour or so of
delicious home cooking and friendly talk will yield a weeks’ worth of stories.
I make my usual contacts. The president of the bank (“no, haven’t heard from the
feds in months”); the sister of Bryan P. Hamilton, professional golfing legend and
Strangers Rest’s most famous resident (next to Cowboy Roy, of course); the visiting
Keller mayor; Justice of the Peace Hubert Skinner.
On my way between tables, I notice a fair number of the old folks are drawn to a
new offering: free samples of bottled water courtesy of Ozona International.
An old man pokes a knarred finger bone at the pyramid of plastic bottles and a
cardboard cutout of the trademark Ozona cloud. The cardboard cloud has been given a
flashing neon lightning bolt, which glints off the polished, albino head of the “Yo! Ozona
Man!” (registered trademark), who has stationed himself behind the table.
“As I said before, it’s part of a nationwide marketing study,” the water man
explains. “We’re trying to determine what new products might appeal to various
segments of the marketplace.”
The front door opens, admitting a hot whirlwind from the asphalt parking lot. It’s
The Stranger, with film crew in tow. He walks straight to me and whispers in my ear.
“What, him?” I ask, incredulous. “He’s supposed to be the sinister Dr. Adolfo
Morel?”
#
He doesn’t look very menacing or dangerous. Or human.
Adolfo Morel bears an odd, alien countenance: smooth head, snow white skin,
blood red lips and mouth and black pupils and irises magnified to lurid proportions by the
prism-like lenses in his glasses. He is average height, but of frail build. His bones are like
those of a bird -- so delicate, you could knock him over with a feather.
“He’s supposed to be the mad scientist of the movie?” I ask. “I just don’t know.”
The Stranger is undeterred by my doubts.
- 60
“Dr. Morel is actually a character from the Society of the Purple Sunset,” he
explains. “He has inexplicably migrated into the waking world. He is the director of the
black ops division of Ozona, here undercover as the ‘Yo! Ozona Man!’ He’s offering free
water, but don’t drink any. It’s just a ruse to introduce a new version of Fluoride9 into the
populace and create the world’s first privately owned deity.”
Roy steps up to the table and examines the pyramid of bottles.
“I hear tell you’re paying $10 and all we got to do is drink some of this water and
fill out the form?”
Dr. Morel carefully adjusts the glasses perched on the bridge of his too-thin, toosmall nose, runs a pale dead hand over his bare pate and gives his questioner an
emotionless, insect smile.
“Yes, it is as you say. We’re paying people to drink our water.”
The Stranger motions to his cameraman and the microphone boom operator. Then
he turns to me.
“For this scene, you are to attempt to claim a bottle and form,” he explains.
“I’m not participating,” I say.
“Don’t worry. You don’t drink it, but you’ll need a bottle so you can have it
analyzed.”
“I won’t.”
The Stranger blinks in disbelief. “Why not?” he asks.
“There’s still no incredible revelation.”
“Be patient. We’re not even done with the back story yet. Action!”
#
“Today we’re testing ‘Fountain of Youth,’” Morel explains. “This amalgamating
beverage is aimed at members of select socio-economic profiles age 50 and up. Samples
are carefully measured. It is necessary to administer the correct mixture to the appropriate
subject.”
“In other words, rich old folks,” The Stranger says. “Mark, now you pick up a
bottle and examine the label, which features a sort of wood cut of Ponce de Leon
discovering Florida. Your line –”
“I already told you I’m not participating,” I say.
“What? Why not?”
“I do not believe in the movie.”
The Stranger looks at me in disbelief.
“How can you not believe?” he asks. “It’s our movie.”
“Not mine. Yours. I don’t believe in it. No one else will believe, either. You are
nothing like the old man in my dream.”
“I am The Stranger.”
“You are a fraud. You’re like a bad game show host. This movie is an extreme
embarrassment. I don’t think you know a thing about making movies.”
The Stranger nods thoughtfully. “OK, we’ll add your dialogue in postproduction.”
#
Cowboy Roy sidles up beside me and rests a conspiratorial forearm on my
shoulder.
“If you want to see a sight, just keep your eyes on Harold.”
- 61
I look over at Harold, who was still sharing a table with Buck and the mayor.
“What am I looking for?”
“Check out that bone pile he’s nursing along. He’s outdone himself this time.”
Sure enough, he has a substantial stack of dominos that now dominate the table.
“Must be two feet tall,” I marvel. The stack is so tall, in fact, that its base
stretched to the table’s edge, tiles sliding over the precipice to the concrete floor. Harold
is grabbing at the falling tiles, tossing them back onto the domino mountain, but this is a
losing battle. In fact, all he has to show for his efforts is a domino avalanche. And an
angry wife.
“I’ll teach you a trick or two, Harold Bost,” Ima says, pelting him with plastic
cutlery from the serving table. “Tricks and cheats! That’s all you’re about, you ornery old
man.”
Harold stoically endures his wife’s fury, ignoring the flying knives and
combination fork/spoons that rained upon him and his domino mountain. Mayor Toots
and Buck nervously watch from behind the Ozona “cloud,” the neon lightning bolt
crackling ominously.
“Poor Harold,” Roy says. “If only he’d use his powers for good.”
Roy and I go to Harold’s assistance, picking up the dominos that litter the floor.
And then Dr. Morel arrives.
“Let’s try a different game,” he suggests to Harold. “I can teach you one I
eternally win.”
“It’s no game at all if you can’t ever lose,” Harold observes.
“It is logically possible for me to lose, but such an event has never occurred.”
“OK then, let’s give it a whirl.”
“Two players. The dominos are arranged in four columns. Eight. Four. Two. One.
Each of us may select as many tiles as we wish, but only from one column at a time.
Whoever selects the final tile is the loser. Would you like to begin?”
#
After five straight losses, Harold shakes his head and pushes back from the table.
“It’s impossible,” he insists.
“At last,” Ima says. “Finally somebody around here got the best of Harold Bost.”
I excuse myself and escape to the parking lot.
The midday heat is a welcome change from the senior center’s icy-cold air
conditioning. In the shade of an oak, I watch two boys playing in a grassless patch of
yard. One of them is acting out an invented scene from “The Abandoned Ones.”
“Come in Affliction Corps,” he commands into a radio-shaped rock. “This is
Normpart Internment Camp. We are under attack, repeat under attack! The United
Nations is bombing the puppies!”
The other boy is not interested in battling the Antichrist. He has focused his
attention on a peach pit, which he is prying open with a flathead screwdriver.
``My brother told me that little seed in there tastes like 7-Up,’’ he says.
That is all the encouragement the other boy needs to abandon playing
“Abandoned.” He retrieves the almond-shaped heart from the pit and bites off half. And
starts a fit of spitting.
``You’d have to call it `ook-aid,’’’ he complains. “Worst tasting stuff I’ve ever
had. It’s like poison.’’
- 62
And then they see the dog, napping in a patch of bare ground under a chinaberry
tree next door.
“Come here baby,” one of the boys says sweetly, holding out the peach pit to the
bleary eyed dog. It sniffs the morsel for a moment, then returns to its chinaberry slumber.
“Aww man.”
#
- 63
#
I have always been in the grip of the idea of universal catastrophe. Call it
Armageddon. Call it the Apocalypse. I have always been awaiting the End of the World.
Consider the dreams of childhood.
The Stranger once said that our earliest dreams often foretell our destiny. “We
should put them in the movie,” he said. “We’ll cast you as the hidden king, the child of
noble birth who is placed with an anonymous, ordinary family while still an infant. And
yet, the truth cannot be entirely concealed. The destiny is foreshadowed in nocturnal
visions.”
Those earliest visions are not pleasant to recall. Would you think it too dramatic if
I told you those nearest me seemed to be bringers of death? I know, I know – how can I
say such terrible things? My parents would be heartbroken to hear that I thought they
were anything less than stellar. Did they not give me everything I needed and every
reasonable thing I wanted? Was I not afforded every opportunity to become a perfected
being? Certainly the blame for this failure is mine alone.
#
I am a preschooler, no more than five, receiving presents from my parents.
Kenner Easy Show Projector, G.I. Joe Mercury space capsule, Hi Ho! Cherry-O – typical
toys of the 1960s. But this is not my birthday or Christmas. The gifts mean my parents
want their only child to have a pleasant experience before handing him over to the devil.
The transfer begins right after the gifts, so I don’t even get a chance to enjoy
them. We are in my bedroom of our house on Cherry Street in Duncanville. I cautiously
approach the twin bed with Early American bedspread, a tapestry of British and
American soldiers engaged in cannon battle. It is a foot or two from the wall and window,
forming a narrow gap into the dark unknown. I peer over the side of the bed, into this
abyss, and see the tail of the devil flicking back and forth. The tail has the familiar
diamond shape on the end; the rest of it is covered in short hair, like a lion's tail. A
lion/demon hybrid. So that’s it. I am to be consumed.
#
My mother and father both work, so I spend my pre-school years with baby
sitters. One of them lives in a garage apartment, a home for cars. Dream after dream, she
makes me sit on a fireplace mantle, in the dark. I am a knickknack, an ornamental
contrivance.
The circumstances of this mantle sitting vary. Sometimes, mixed in with the
dream memories, there is a waking life recollection of an older neighbor girl who
threatens me with a leather belt, which she cracks like a whip. Always, I am threatened
with severe physical punishment if I get down. And if I should ever fall, it will be even
worse: I will be transformed into a statue.
I know this because I saw it in another vision, one in which I stand at the end of a
long, smooth game surface. I look down over the end, into the abyss, and see the sailboat
that slid too far. Lying next to the boat is a man-turned-statue. He reminds me of the pilot
who used to sit inside the airplane on the roof of the Skyvue Motel in Waco. This dead
mariner is forever fixed in a sitting position, hand poised for the rudder. This is a
terrifying location, peering over the edge of life and death.
#
- 64
Now at a different baby sitter's house, outside playing with children. In the front
yard I see my dog, a black poodle named Tinker, running with some of the kids. His ears
are flying behind him; he’s having a great time. This is a surprise, though, because Tinker
should be at home on Cherry Street, the other side of town.
Suddenly, the baby sitter’s older, mean son chases down my dog, runs him to the
ground. This will be bad, death for sure. I ask the boy not to hurt Tinker.
“He’s my dog.”
So the boy waits for me, Tinker cowered at his feet. But when I arrive at his side,
I see that it is not Tinker at all. Instead of my happy, energetic puppy, I see a sad-eyed
creature wearing a floppy straw hat with plastic flowers pasted on the side. A sad, old
Southern lady dog, ready to hoe collards in her vegetable garden.
Both fearful and relieved, I tell the boy that it's not my pet. I walk sadly away,
leaving the terrified gardening dog to the older boy’s not-so-tender mercies. I should have
tried to save her.
#
One of my grade school teachers stands naked in front of the class, talking to the
boys. No girls are present.
We can’t believe our good fortune. This teacher is the only “Miss” in our grade, a
young divorced woman with dark hair parted in the middle. The boys all think she is hot.
“Don't laugh or she'll quit," one boy says.
So we all put on our best serious faces and pretend to listen, staring in silence.
This is the first time I have seen a naked woman, but I know enough that I am not
surprised by her appearance. She has no penis, only testicles. Isn’t this normal female
anatomy?
#
I must take some unpleasant medicine. It is chlorine bleach, a proper treatment for
the whitening of dark innards. But how can I choke this down? Mom mixes it with ice
cream. This is awful. But she tells me I must eat it. I must take my medicine.
#
Our antique grandfather clock is possessed, haunted. The hands are spinning
wildly, the chimes are off key, cold and distant. And the spirits inside are calling to me.
“Rhine, rhine, rhine…” My father bought the clock in Germany, brought it home in the
belly of a Texas Air National Guard KC-97. So perhaps the ghosts are homesick for the
Fatherland.
#
Visiting relatives, poking around interesting artifacts in their junk-filled garage.
One of my cousins finds an old JaPoppa Man Robot, a once-popular but now longobsolete life-size toy that resembles a crash test dummy. They’re easy to operate: Put the
JaPoppa Man in the special JaPoppa Popping Chair, which charges and activates the
robot by bouncing it up and down like the pilot in one of those old, failed flying
machines. I don’t think my cousin should reawaken this long-sleeping robot. Let sleeping
robots lie, I say. But she and others do it anyway. They put the robot in the chair and
crank it up. Soon, the JaPoppa Man rises from the chair, staggering around like the
village drunk. All the kids laugh. But this cannot end well. Surely, JaPoppa Man will be
misunderstood. He will be chased down by torch-bearing villagers and burned alive in a
Dutch windmill.
- 65
#
Visiting my girlfriend’s house. Her family is there, including a little brother. He is
sitting at the coffee table, working on his coin collection. I wish that I had some valuable
coins to give him. This would make me look good in front of the girl and her family –
like a normal, friendly young man. It would be nice to appear normal, all for the bargain
price of a few pieces of silver.
#
A man decides to conduct an experiment in which he will spend a short amount of
time inside a pizza oven, perhaps 15 minutes. My job is to close the door behind him and
open it at the proper time. I agree to do so as a favor, so surely I am not to blame for the
terrible tragedy that befalls him.
The experiment begins, proceeding unremarkably. But as this is a pizza parlor, I
become distracted by the demands of business. Lots of customers, so many that I forget
the man I’ve shut up in the oven. When I finally remember him, it has been 45 minutes.
I rip open the door, but it is too late. He is dead. His legs look normal enough, but
the top half of his body is melted onto the surface of the oven. It looks like a pair of legs
protruding from a puddle of overcooked mozzarella.
I know I am in trouble now. I get a sick feeling inside and run away. But there is
no escape; it is only a matter of time. I am a killer.
#
While sitting in a chair (possibly tied to it), I am shot in the chest with a pistol.
Point blank. I feel no pain, yet the wound is fatal. I know that I am dead – or soon will be.
Indeed, others in the room already regard me as dead, a remnant of the past. They walk
past, not even bothering to look my way. But I can still observe them, and I wonder what
will become of me.
#
The conclusion of time comes in my sleep.
My parents wake me up early, while it is still dark. We step outside, onto the front
porch stoop of the Woodacre Circle house. I look out at our little town. The houses have
been destroyed. All that remains are the brick chimneys, rising above the smoking ruins
like blackened obelisks. The fires of destruction burn red in the broken hearths. The
world of my childhood is no more.
#
On a skateboard, moving rapidly down a school hallway. A closed door lies
ahead. I am moving too fast to stop; there will be a terrible collision. But just as I reach
the door, someone opens it and I pass through unharmed. Every 50 feet or so I encounter
another door. And each time, someone opens it just in time for me to pass through. The
process is repeated perhaps a dozen times. Meanwhile, I continue to gain momentum.
There is nothing to stop me now.
#
Out in the darkness, a strange man – perhaps a monster – is trying to break into
the house. He is coming for me.
My father is away on a trip; mom is asleep on the sofa. I attempt to rouse her.
“There’s a man trying to get into the house!”
Oblivious to my panic, she waves me away with a sleep-heavy hand. 
- 66
“There’s no such thing as men,” she mumbles, then rolls back over into her
slumber.
#
The Stranger. I thought he was to be my shadow, and I was to be the famous one.
But I have misapprehended my dreams, my vision. In truth he is the original; I am the
secondary character, the carbon copy.
I think of Borges, of “Borges and I.” Like him, I am contemplating the “other
one” … The Stranger is becoming the one called Mark Leach, the one things happen to. I
must exist, let myself go on existing, so that this Mark Leach may engineer his epic film,
which is intended to validate me. It is no exertion for me to admit that he has attained
some legitimate footage, but I fear that footage will not rescue me from myself. It cannot
rescue me from the legends of the desolate borderlands, from the mental pastimes of era
and perpetuity. Those things belong to The Stranger now.
In “Last Year at Marienbad: An Intertextual Meditation,” Thomas Beltzer wrote
that “if you go to the movies too often, you may never come back. Your own life may
become a fiction.”
But other than the fictions of childhood, what belongs to me? What is to become
of me?
#
- 67
#
At home at night. I receive a promising phone call.
“Hello, this is Anna Enruckus of the New York Agenda. I want to do a story
about your dreams.”
I can’t believe it. The New York Agenda, the paper of record for the world, wants
to do a story about my visions, about my incredible revelation. About me!
In all fairness, The Stranger may be right. This may be the twilight era of
newspapers. But they’re not dead yet. People still read. And when they read something in
the New York Agenda, they believe it. Not like some ridiculous cinematic fraud with a
mechanical tornado and a paranoid fantasy about a bottled water company creating the
world’s first privately owned and operated deity.
“Can you believe my own paper isn’t even interested?” I ask.
“That’s incredible,” Anna says. “This may be the most important story of the
Hydrocarbon Age, perhaps of the entire Modern World. I want to document your dreams,
the visions of the end of an era.”
“I keep a dream journal. Would you like me to overnight you a copy?”
#
- 68
#
Dateline: D/FW Airport. I stand at the end of Gate 19, waiting for the passengers
of Delta Flight 3519 from Omaha. Reporter’s notebook and pen in hand, I am ready to
commit some genuine daily newspaper reporting. But I am not optimistic about my
chances for success.
“Come on, Le-e-e-ach,” Guy had protested, drawing out the first syllable of my
name in a friendly, but mocking tone. “It’s a great story. Travelers of the jet age flying
over the heads of travelers of the Conestoga age.”
“But when you’re on final descent, people are busy gathering up their
possessions,” I protested. “They are putting the tray table in the upright position, getting
ready to leave. And even if they were looking out the window, it’d be a stretch for them
to see any encampment beyond the perimeter, even something as big as the
Sesquicentennial Wagon Train.”
“All you need to do is talk to a few arriving passengers, get some snazzy quotes,
write it right and you’ve got a P-1 easy.”
Of course, it has not been easy. As I had predicted, none of the arriving
passengers have seen any Old West wagon train from their cabin windows. And what
about quotes? Just getting a “no” has been quite an accomplishment.
Few travelers will stop long enough to talk to me, or even acknowledge my
presence. Men traveling alone are proving to be the worst. They won’t even look at me. I
am certain that I could wave a $100 bill in front of them and get no recognition. Some of
the solo female travelers do give me a polite “no,” and several couples have actually
stopped long enough to shake their heads and exchange looks of bemused, doubt-filled
sympathy.
I am the newspaper jester, leaping about the concourse with a pointy cap on my
head and bells on my shoes. Or perhaps a Hare Krishna, one disguising his shaved head
with a short-haired wig and temporarily trading in the white robe and finger cymbals for
a dress shirt and tie.
After debasing myself before a couple of loads of Delta passengers, I dig a quarter
out of my pocket and call the State Desk editor who has conceived the wagon-train-asseen-from-above story. It is to be part of a multi-day package, complete with “Wagons,
ho!” logo and the phrase “One in an occasional series” preceding the text. Except that
now it will be one story short.
“No one saw it? Are you sure?” an incredulous Larry Broland asks. “I just can’t
believe that.”
Larry is more than a little disappointed that his grand idea is not panning out. And
like all successful editors, he is not about to shoulder the blame.
“Well, try a few more flights and call me back,” Larry says tiredly. “If you don’t
get anything, then I guess you might as well come back in.”
I bet nothing like this ever happens at the New York Agenda.
#
Of course, I have no intention of ambushing any more arriving passengers. The
story is DOA -- actually, dead at the scene. Broland is simply working CPR on a corpse.
A veteran staffer whose byline file dates back to 1961, he could give his inspired idea the
quality reporting it deserves. But not me. So I decide to kill the rest of the assigned
reporting time kicking around the airport.
- 69
After a quick Dr Pepper in one of the bars, I take an escalator to the lower level
and board one of the automated AirTrans cars. My car is empty, allowing me to pick the
last seat so I can watch my progress in reverse.
The electric-powered tram rolls smoothly out of the dim terminal and into the
blinding, Texas sun. Rolling along by myself in the tram’s narrow, concrete channel, I
study the receding parking lots and “Authorized Personnel Only” signs along the
AirTrans route. But I see no signs of life. I imagine myself in some science fiction movie
about the last man on earth. I am Charlton Heston in “The Omega Man,” scavenging the
remains of the vast techno-infrastructure that continues to operate on automatic pilot. All
mankind is dead, but I continue to receive my paycheck by direct deposit. This allows me
to use my bank’s electronic bill payer service to keep the electricity streaming into my
home, my debit card to fill my gas tank and ATMs to feed me currency for use in
vending machines that dispense Dr Pepper at 10, 2, 4 and any other time I desire.
After a few automated stops but no new passengers, I grow tired of the last-manon-earth scenario and de-board at one of the terminals. I wander a quiet stretch of
concourse. No one around. Just me and the endless walkways, lines of doors, gates, -- and
walls. Always there are walls, everywhere around me. Mute, deserted – walls of baroque
embellishments, mahogany veneer, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, Carrara marble.
Unexpectedly, I find myself contemplating the fossilized bones of a dinosaur. An
interpretive plaque explains that the animal was a plesiosaur, which workers unearthed
during construction of the airport back in the Middle Hydrocarbon Age. Bones encased
behind dark glass, lost among obscure illustrations, Romanesque columns, sculptured
thresholds, lines of doors, colonnades, oblique hallways leading to deserted meeting
rooms paneled in the baroque embellishments of an earlier time. Mute rooms, where
footsteps are lost. Sculpted berber so profound, so deep that one perceives no step. The
walls are everywhere, enclosing me.
#
Looking to kill a few more minutes before placing my final, bogus call to Larry
Broland, I step into a newsstand and began absently rummaging through the magazine
rack. I pick up the latest copy of Info Era, a supermarket-style tabloid that specializes in
stories about UFOs and the Secret Government. It’s one of my guilty pleasures. As I flip
through the pages, I am surprised to find an extensive interview with Dr. Adolfo Morel
concerning the Society of the Purple Sunset.
Morel: “This game is actually based on a real world endeavor. It was initiated by
splinter groups inside the federal administration and covert companies to influence and
manage the population. During the years 1966 and 1967 a scheme titled Clockscan was
established. It was discontinued in 1968. The intent of the scheme was to secure the
industrial aptitude to go into a person’s nocturnal vision condition and make happen his
demise by detonating his brain. It also entailed placing brain management equipment in
orbit for use on the inhabitants of Earth. The equipment projected brain direction devices
in the image of a Clock in the Air for application on the people of the planet.”
Info Era: “What organization operated that scheme?”
Morel: “Flying Device Research Center (FDRC), which had additional concealed
schemes under its control. At that juncture, FDRC was operated by Drinkoff Inc., one of
the black ops divisions of Ozona International. Now it is administered through the
Department of Defense.” 
- 70
Info Era: “The DoD is running Project Clockscan?”
Morel: “In cooperation with a variety of extraterrestrial orders. These groups
come and go, of course, depending on the inter-species political atmosphere of the
galaxy. The C-Group, which is shorthand for Cicada Group, is currently serving as
technical consultant for the project.
Info Era: “Tell us about the Cicadians.”
Morel: “The Cicadians are extraterrestrial insects. They are giant insectoids with
huge compound eyeballs and minds of pure metaphor, the waking world and the Land of
the Dead kept in perfect balance. They have been drawn into the government’s
clandestine schemes at regular intervals since at least the 1940s, and there are some
indications of a relationship dating back to the 1890s.”
Info Era: “You’re talking about Aurora, Texas, and the El Camino Extraterrestre.”
Morel: “Actually, I’m talking about the Strangers Rest project.”
Info Era: “I thought that was just a myth, a part of the Society of the Purple
Sunset.”
Morel: “It’s real. Remember, the Society of the Purple Sunset is a mythic game
based on reality. Strangers Rest is tied into the Corpus Christi Experiment as well as Fort
Worth I and Fort Worth II.”
Info Era: “You’re talking about onbeam brain management.”
Morel: “Yes. After the politicians learned about Clockscan, they moved to
discontinue the project. But the board of directors headed straight for the armed forces
and suggested utilizing the technology via public electronic entertainment venues – back
in those pre-onbeam days it was just TV and radio broadcast -- to manipulate the brains
of our terrestrial foes, both at home and abroad. The generals were enamored by the
concept, and they permitted use of the bunkers under the old Stranger Rest Field. Ozona
International financed the project with a grant from the Nazi government in exile.”
Info Era: “The Nazis financed Project Clockscan?”
Morel: “That’s right. You see, Hitler had escaped from Germany at the end of the
Second Earthly Conflict with 200 of his most loyal followers – including Goebbels,
whose faked suicide was a Nazi ruse to fool the Russians and the Americans – and $20
billion in gold bullion, which he used to finance his government in exile in Uruguay. He
traveled to South America on board a U-boat, but he transported the gold using an aerial
clock the Luftwaffe had brought down with one of its V-2 rockets. The aliens had
equipped the clock with a sky-energy detonator, which Hitler’s scientists believed could
convert the heavens to flames. But the Germans never could figure out how to make it
work. If they had, the war would have been over in 72 hours and you and your
grandchildren would be speaking German today.”
Info Era: “Do you recall the Raincarnate case?”
Morel: “Interesting you should make that connection. Harry Raincarnate was an
industrialist who lived in Houston in the 1950s. One evening as he was driving home
from his factory his vehicle malfunctioned. He was caught up in a beam of amber light
and taken aboard an aerial clock. The occupants were clad in dark apparel and spoke
German Creole with a decidedly Uruguayan accent. He thought they might have been
Nazis. After his return, he was transported back onboard the clock several times. He
started telling friends and associates about his experience, but then he was visited by
federal agents who told him he’d better stop talking ‘if he knew what was good for him.’ 
- 71
Then they put him in a psychic sanatorium for five months. He came out a shadow of his
former self. Lost his business, died penniless. It was a major news story in 1957.”
Info Era: “So Hitler wanted to learn how to use the weapon in the clock?”
Morel: “This was a few months before he went comatose and they suspended him
in a ‘submerged ice’ system, which is based on Cicadian exoskeletal biology. It is the
way their young survive underground for years before emerging in the winged stage of
their life cycle. Anyway, this system was delivered to Hitler by the Cicadians, who
wanted to get the Fuhrer into an exoskeletal shell and out of the way before he did any
more damage. The Cicadians are actually quite peaceful and so were very troubled with
the events of the Second Earthly Conflict. So it was all pre-arranged. Hitler was to go into
suspended animation, and that would be the end of it. But Hitler didn’t want to wait until
his eventual thawing and revival to have his Third Reich victory. He said ‘I want to
initiate the one thousand years now, before I go into hibernation.’ He thought the
researchers for Clockscan might be able to figure out how to operate the detonator, but
before they could give him his new Final Solution he had a massive stoke and had to be
frozen.”
Info Era: “Is the One World Government involved in prolonged existence?”
Morel: “Of course, because it takes so long to realize these goals. When you
arrive at that intensity of political power, you find that the brains of global leaders are
distorted and manipulated by exposure to Cicadian DNA, which is in fact based on
Fluoride9. They are totally dependent on alien insect technology and biology.”
As I scan the story for more about Strangers Rest, my attention strays to a young
family across the concourse.
They sit in the gray vinyl seats, mom and dad buried in paperback novels as their
two sons play around the carry-on bags at their feet. The boys are a blur of slapping
hands, swinging feet and smacking mouths, which they stuff with a steady stream of
Skittles candies. They remind me of my own sons, and I for a moment I even feel a bit
wistful -- that is, until they remind me of my boys a bit too much.
“Momma, Joey scratched my arm,” one of them says, rapidly blinking his eyes in
hopes of shedding a credible tear. The other responds with a louder yelp, then recklessly
pounds his own arm and whines something about how he’s been wronged
“againandagainandagain and he wouldn’t stop!”
The father says nothing, and I feel myself tense up, waiting for what I am sure
will be the mother’s inevitable, screeching outburst. After all, I have been in his position
many times, engulfed in censorious dread.
But much to my surprise, the outburst never occurs. Instead, the mother speaks
some soft, soothing words to both of the wounded children, hands then some bauble from
her purse and all is well again. Then she returns to her reading, all without so much as
raising her voice. I am amazed. No shouting. Even more incredible, the wife turns to her
husband, speaks a few more quiet words. He smiles, replies and both of them laugh. No
yelling. They are happy – happy unto death.
#
I must confess that I cannot conceive of such a cordial exchange with Allison.
And she is an incredibly beloved person. Ask any of her friends. She is the companion
everyone wants to have. She is the perfected being. But me – I am not such a desired
companion. I am the outsider, the alien. 
- 72
I am Clark Caring, returning home after an alternate reality erases the previous
year of marital discord, separation and impending divorce.
#
I find it both pleasant and strange to return to the house from which I had been
banished by court order the previous year. Parking the Lexus in my old spot in the
garage, tousling the hair of my 11-year-old son as he sits glued to the TV, fixing myself a
dirty martini (with blue-cheese stuffed olive, of course) as my beloved puts the finishing
touches on the evening’s savory yet nutritious dinner.
Can you believe it? I am still married, still a family man. Life is good.
My copy of the “The Voice of God” (found in the bookcase in my study) does not
reveal much useful information. It resembles no book I’ve ever seen. The text begins on
the first page. No fly sheet, no title page, no acknowledgements. The only reference to a
publisher is a brief mention on the back cover: “Another exciting dreamography from
End Times Books. Visit us onbeam today!”
I am preparing to plug in when a spousal scream hits me from across the house. I
hustle into the kitchen to find my beloved feeling a bit less than loving.
“I’m trying to get dinner on the table,” she complains. “Can you at least set the
table and get Brian to wash his hands?”
“Of course. I didn’t know you needed any help.”
“Right. We have dinner every night. The food has to be cooked, the table has to
be set. I didn’t think I have to tell you that anymore. I can’t do everything.”
#
Back in the day, this is the place in the story where the people would expect to see
me and Mrs. God engage in a dinnertime scene of marital discord. Perhaps an oblique
reference to the Dairy Queen, a suggestion that Mrs. God suspects I am squirting my
love inside my 22-year administrative assistant with the big boobs and the tight ass.
Does she suspect there is – or, rather ‘was’ – something between us?
Or perhaps we would sit at the table in silence, glaring at one another across the
top edge of competing daily newspapers as occurred in “Citizen Kane,” a movie about a
man who wanted everyone to love him.
The desire to be loved – back in the day this is what marriage was all about.
Some men believed that what they really wanted was to hear one special woman say “I
love you.” But they were fooling themselves.
For here is the truth: During the last days of Planet Earth, what men really
wanted, in their heart of hearts, was to be loved by everyone. Like a God. Which is to
say, they wanted to BE GOD. To be loved because you are a superior being – because
you are more worthy of love than mere mortals – this is the real thing.
This is True Love.
I tell you my beloved creations, True Love is better than all other forms of
affection. True Love prompts the superior being to create a universe. True Love
motivates the superior being to bring light to a world that is without form and void.
Admittedly, True Love sometimes prompts the superior being to let bad things
happen to good people. When the superior being has been violated, True Love makes him
turn women into pillars of salt. True Love makes him cover the earth in a murderous
flood. And yes, True Love even makes him bring about the “terrible calamity.”
- 73
But how can it be otherwise? True Love does not depend on lovable actions. That
is why True Love is absolutely required by the superior being. True Love is received not
because of what you do but simply because of you are.
#
As for me and Allison and True Love – such a scene is not in the script. Oh sure,
maybe once, long ago. In the dim recesses of my memory, I vaguely recall a time when I
thought she was happy with me. And we were happy, I’m sure of it. We were perfect,
two perfected beings. I remember us in our normal waking world lives, walking hand in
hand at the mall, draping an arm across my shoulder – but no, this memory is not for me.
I do not require it anymore. I am perfect without it. I am perfect, I am happy. I am happy
unto death!
I sit here with you on the warm beach, but I feel oddly cold. Yes, you can see that
I am shivering. Did I tell you the concourse walls were bleeding? There were Nazi
paratroopers, too. I see them even now, landing on the tarmac outside the window. On the
back of my hand, the embedded nest of tiny white eggs. They hatching into an army of
hungry wolf spiders, picking my bones clean.
Again I advance toward the combination gas station/Germany bakery in West,
Texas, carried by the twilight wind across a rolling prairie, snagged in an old barbed wire
fence, wind whistling through tombstones. An awful dark rip has appeared in the master
film, right in the midst of a long, languid shot panning the valley of blue shadows and a
gemstone cranium of mist and haze, a gloom of unfilled spaces. On an astral cattle trail
paved in stones of ginger-colored exasperation we come to the ford in the creek. The
resonance of running water and a pale flash of dead cold-eyed Jonah gone bluish white
beneath the still surface of the dark gulf waters, cold flesh dissected by albino brain crabs
and screeching sea birds, twilight fish jumping, a concerto of amphibians and mounds of
hospital wastes and jellyfish with sea grass growing through. All alone, just me and the
long dead beach – and The Stranger.
He steps out from behind a potted palm and switches off the Beulah.
“I’m told there’s more than one way to show that you love someone,” he remarks.
“I haven’t managed to find any of them.”
“Perhaps we do not receive love because we are not capable of administering it.
We are not yet a perfected being.”
“Wouldn’t it be nice to be both imperfect and loved?”
“Now you’re just talking crazy.”
#
- 74
#
Dinner in the house that Jack built. But first, our host must finish his tan.
Reclining on a Victorian-style fainting couch, something his wife picked up
shortly after their wedding and has still failed to retrieve for her post-Jack life. Hoping to
render it unusable, Jack has turned it into the centerpiece of his ``tanning salon,’’ a little
corner of the breakfast nook. Lost in the scent of rum and coconut tanning oil rising out
of the velvet upholstery, Jack reaches up to adjust a UV tanning bulb that buzzes
violently inside a black flood lamp overhead.
``You make it sound so - so sordid,’’ he remarks, adjusting a pair of dark green
tanning goggles. ``It’s no big deal.”
“But the feds may declare your dad’s sanctuary insolvent,” I say.
“Rockwall Banc,” The Stranger says. “It was years ago, but I still remember the
call reports. Ton of bad loans, mostly real estate and photovoltaics.”
“Big deal,” Jack remarks. “Everybody’s doing it.”
“Next spring. The examiners will come on a Thursday.”
“Thursday? How do you know?”
“They always come on a Thursday,” I explain, “right before closing time.”
“A prophet is never honored in his own country,” The Stranger says.
We were still in college when Andrew Bryson purchased Rockwall Banc, a sleepy
little G&C he quickly transformed into one of the fastest growing sanctuaries in the
Southwest. I remember a story about it in the business section of the Dallas Times
Herald. The reporter had captured a perfect quote for the times: “I told all the real estate
brokers `Don’t bring me anymore apartment buildings, shopping centers or office towers.
I want a guarantee and credit!’”
The Stranger remembers it, too.
“There was the photo that ran with the story,” he recalls. “I even recall something
of the wording: Posed in his third floor corner office of Rockwall Banc’s mirrored glass
midrise, dressed in his gray banker’s suit with red power tie, Mr. Bryson sits tall in the
saddle behind his expansive desk, a mound of loan files before him and the North Dallas
Tollway throbbing below, a giant 220-volt electrical cord snaking through the Texas real
estate market, plugging him straight into the go-go ‘80s.”
“That’s not what it said,” Jack says.
“Still, it should have.”
But now the chairman of Rockwall Banc was no longer sitting quite so tall.
Business was tough. Last year, in a fit of anger over the sanctuary’s stagnating loan
portfolio, Andrew Bryson threw his high-back leather desk chair down the stairwell and
vowed he would not replace it until he’d restored the loan-to-loss ratio to an acceptable
level. That apparently wasn’t going to happen anytime soon. I’d seen the most recent
quarterly report for Texas sanctuaries. Mr. Bryson was still using the gunmetal gray
folding chair he’d made his secretary pick up at Target.
“When I told dad I needed another interim he nearly busted a vessel,” Jack recalls.
“He said ‘but you haven’t sold any of your other specs yet.’”
“So he wouldn’t give you another loan?” I ask.
“He gave me something much better. The benefit of his advice.”
“`Better just tighten up your belt a few notches,” The Stranger says.
- 75
“That’s right,” Jack confirms. “’Tighten up your belt and run the business off cash
until you get a house sold.’”
“Guess that’s the downside of having your father for a banker. So did you tell him
the problem was you didn’t have any cash?”
“Oh right. Like why don’t I just wear a little sign on by butt that says `kick me.’”
“I like it,” The Stranger said. “We could give it a homey treatment, maybe
something like ‘It’s a Wonderful Life.’”
“That’s what I’m saying. I’m George Bailey, on my knees, begging, and he’s
sitting there like he’s old man Potter, king of Bedford Falls. He just keeps on saying `the
auditors are really cracking down, I can’t do anything special just because you’re my
son.’”
Clearly, the situation has turned serious. I know of several developers who’ve
recently had their loans called. Country records show a few have escaped with only deeds
in lieu of foreclosure. But for most, it is the trustee’s deed, sale to the highest bidder on
the south steps of the county courthouse. There is even some talk of deficiency judgments
secured by lenders left holding properties that aren’t worth the inflated loan balances,
long-spent dollars generated from bogus developer fees and other accounting tricks. A
few of the wheeler dealers are even going to jail. I turn to The Stranger.
“You know what’s going to happen.”
He nods. “But I don’t think I should tell.”
“Because he doesn’t know,” Jack says.
The Stranger does not respond. Jack shrugs and takes another sip of his bourbon
and water.
“Anyway,” Jack continues, “dad offered me six-month extensions on the two
loans that were about to come due, so that gives me a few more months to find a buyer or
two.”
“That’s good news.”
“But it didn’t come cheap, did it?” The Stranger says.
“That’s right. He decided to tell me what I’d done wrong with Donna.”
“What you did wrong?” I ask. “Is he forgetting that Donna is the one who left
you?”
Jack laughs a bitter, dry laugh and takes a hard pull from his drink. “No, he didn’t
forget. But, you see, that’s what nice girls do when their husbands force them to put out
for their friends. Your name was prominently mentioned.”
I can’t quite believe my ears. “Andy thinks me? Donna?”
He nods.
“But I was a groomsman at your wedding.”
“I couldn’t even listen to it, I was so furious. I got in his face and yelled `you
don’t know what the hell you’re talking about.’”
“Really?’’ I cannot imagine such a response from Jack, always the good,
respectful son.
“I think it shocked him pretty severely. He said he was sorry. I’m glad it
happened, though. We’d never talked about it before. It really cleared the air.”
“Did he say anything that helped?”
- 76
“No, not really. What does he know about marriage? I don’t think him and mom
have done it in years, maybe not since I was conceived. No, it was just good to talk it
through with him, to clear the air.”
“Good to clear the air before the divorce is final, right?”
“Hmm? Oh yeah,” Jack says, pretending to remember. “You know, I almost
forgot. To me, it’s like we’re already divorced, even if it’s not official. Now let’s fire up
the grill.”
While we wait in the kitchen for the charcoal to whiten, The Stranger happens
upon a wicker basket filled with delinquency notices from various credit card companies.
“I remember these, too,” he says. “For a pauper you do all right.”
“I can’t complain,’’ Jack agrees.
#
Jack Bryson
12 Highland Terrace
Strangers Rest, TX 76270
#
Account No: 51340666 201 1776
Current Balance: $2,786
Delinquent Amount Due: $438
#
Dear Jack Bryson
#
We have been informed by our Security Department that an attempt was made to
obtain credit on your account while it is delinquent.
If further attempts are made to obtain credit on your account before correcting the
above situation, your credit privileges may be canceled. You must contact my office to
make arrangements for minimum amount due. Your account is being evaluated, for
placement with a collection agency or attorney for the purpose of bringing a lawsuit
against you.
Telephone my department and explain your intention for repayment.
Juanita Lamethorpe
Collection Manager
#
It happened two weeks before at his favorite French nouvelle restaurant in the
McKinney Avenue area of Dallas. The meal ended with the waitress cutting his card in
half, forcing him to pay the bill ($140 plus tip) with a company check. It was not until the
next day that he realized the corporate account of Jack Bryson Homes Inc. had been
reduced to a grand total of $4.42.
``Dad says you’re nobody anymore unless you owe at least a couple of million to
somebody,’’ Jack remarks.
“What is one more late notice from Juanita Lamethorpe?” The Stranger says.
“You’re on the hook for three interim production loans totaling well over $1 million. I’ve
got a concept to convert your experience into something second hand, something planned
and described for your consumption in advance.”
“Let’s hear it.”
- 77
“The only thing that bothers you -- a little, anyway -- is that you’ve already gone
through the profits you budgeted for those jobs but still have no buyers.”
“That’s true.”
“Your household account needs a cash infusion. But how? That’s when you get
the big idea, an inspired, cunning, recklessly dangerous idea.”
“I build another house?”
“It is so simple. And you can even justify it, explain to the sanctuary –“
“My father.”
“-- that The Lakes of Greenwood really needed one more house –“
“Payment to builder, me.”
“-- to fully demonstrate the brilliance of the concept –“
“My father’s concept, of course.”
“-- and reach that all-important critical mass.”
“That even sounds like my dad.”
So simple. If only there was some money left somewhere in Texas to do it.
“Dad told me a prayer he heard at the last commercial real estate breakfast,” Jack
says. “Dear Lord, please let me have one more boom. I promise I won’t fuck it up this
time. Amen.’’
“You know what NCNB stands for?” The Stranger asks.
But Jack doesn’t hear him. He is watching me thumb through the latest issue of
Cosmopolitan, a subscription that Jack’s wife has failed to forward to her new address.
``I’m just getting educated,” I explain. “I think women like to read about orgasms
a lot more than they like to have them.”
``Depends on the woman,” Jack says.
``I wonder if women really are even physically capable of having them. I think
it’s all a big fake, a massive intra-sexual conspiracy they made up so they can make the
man get off of them when they’re tired of being sweated on.’’
“That was Allison before she left me,” The Stranger says.
“They don’t fake it with me, I know that for sure,” Jack insists.
“But, of course, you do not know.”
“Why are you always introducing such unpleasant lines of thought? Like the late
notices. Why bring those up? They were sitting in the wicker basket, not bothering
anybody. And couldn’t you find a better magazine to read than Cosmopolitan? The latest
issue of Playboy is right underneath it.”
“I was getting to that next.”
“Why insist on wallowing in chronic mournfulness?”
“Because I’m the two-bodied man.”
Jack picks up the Playboy and heads straight for the centerfold, but I can see it
doesn’t help. The Stranger can see it, too.
“Don’t you wonder if Miss August ever faked an orgasm?” The Stranger asks.
“You could find out, try seducing her, but that would be tough because your credit
privileges have been suspended.”
“Enough,” Jack says. “A few more minutes of this and I’ll be as beaten down as
both of you. I gotta go.”
“I thought we were going to grill,” The Stranger says.
- 78
Jack tosses the magazine on the counter and begins rummaging about for his
wallet and keys.
“Aren’t we going to eat?” I ask. I am half starved, waiting all evening for Jack to
quit screwing around and get into gear. His normal dinner hour is about 11 p.m., a real
shock to my stomach. I’m used to a family meal every evening around 6:30.
“I won’t be gone long,” he says. “But go ahead and fix yourself something.
There’s some fantastic leftover lamb in the refrigerator.”
“So, what, you’ll be back in about a half hour?” The Stranger asks. He is starving,
too.
“I’m not that fast.”
“Maybe we should just call it a night, try again tomorrow,” I suggest.
“Hell no. Stay. Play the stereo, drink my liquor, fuck my cat. I’ll be back in plenty
of time.”
“You haven’t even taken a shower yet.”
“I’m not taking one, the tanning lamp didn’t make me sweat.”
“Well, I don’t know. It is a week night.”
“Oh no, it’s a week night,” Jack say, using his nervous woman voice. “Come on,
you’re a bachelor again – or one of you is, I don’t know. All you can think about is
getting a good night’s sleep.”
“Why is sitting around here any better than sitting around at my own house?”
“Because when you get done here, instead of going to bed you’re going to go out
with me.”
“What are we talking about here, an hour?”
“Yeah, an hour, that sounds good.”
The Stranger smiles at me. We both know it won’t be an hour.
Jack scoops up his keys and heads for the garage. “Eat the lamb, it’s fantastic,” he
tells us. “My mom made it.”
#
“I haven’t had much success in writing,” I admit between bites of roasted lamb.
“You are the one things happen to, the one who has success.”
The Stranger nods sympathetically. “That’s because you still put your trust in the
concrete and rational, in the untrustworthy waking world. This is no place to disseminate
your incredible revelation.”
I do not tell him about the New York Agenda.
“Try on this concept,” he advises. “You observe the birth of a new form of
friends. They are to fully dismiss the idea that your dreams are also the daimon that
drives you where it will. You are to be one of the people. The hook is that you told
yourself, in visions. You speak to yourself through dreams. It is mentioned in Numbers,
where one is unwittingly transfigured by the contents. You can no longer deny this
transfiguration.”
“Did you put the clock in the sky?”
“No, no. See, you’re trying too hard. You must avoid excessive rationalism
without wisdom. I was like you, before I became like me. That is, before I discovered the
restorative nature of the epic film.”
“How did this discovery come to pass?”
- 79
“Like so many transformative processes, it came over time. We shall now commit
the process to film.”
The Stranger lays down his fork. He produces his Beulah and explains the scene.
“You will accidentally discover this,” he says, handing me a book, “which has
been delivered to you in an unmarked envelope by a shadowy character from the Land of
the Dead. We’ll film that part later, of course.”
I read the name on the spine. Well, how about that?
“Pretty, a nice look of surprise for the close up,” he says. “Exactly the state of
shock I was hoping for.”
Magnetica O’Famously. My old girlfriend!
In the years before I met Allison, Magnetica was my romantic attachment. After a
long period of casual membrane penetrations, she dumped me for a boyfriend redux. She
called him “Kool,” a nickname she’d given him for the ever-present cigarette that he
employed as a sort of Bohemian prop. He had exited her life after she captured him in an
intentional act of plagiarism. Seems he had submitted a purloined work to a small East
Coast literary journal, of which Magnetica was editor. He then abandoned her, and she
was left behind to write and publish the public apology.
So how about that? Magnetica has a book of her own now. Although not
plagiarized, this one is a rather obvious paraphrase of Carl Jung’s “Flying Saucers: A
Modern Myth of Things Seen in the Sky.” Still, it beats anything I’ve written, which is to
say nothing. So she’s ahead of me. She’s better than me. That’s probably why she
dumped me.
Ah well. I am genuinely happy for her, happy for her achievement. I present the
jacket blurb for your consideration.
#
A ticking mandala of the almighty – As our imaginings demonstrate very
obviously, aerial timepieces arrive from the comatose milieu, which forever asserts itself
in mystical thoughts and metaphors. Cultured humans, like prehistoric ones, are aware of
the deities, of the ghosts, and of destiny and the supernatural character of occasion and
location. This is the focal concept of ‘A Clock in the Air: A Contemporary Legend of
Timepieces Observed in the Heavens,’ another exciting New Age tome from Magnetica
O’Famously and Weigh-In Books. An existence and reason coach from The Land of the
Dead, O’Famously had a life-changing experience through a numinous encounter with
the inner workings of the Deity’s clockwork mandala. What was the result of this
revelatory experience in the sky? O’Famously proposes that faith in aerial timepieces is
actually a reply to the bottomless social nervousness of a civilization intimidated by
unexpected technological obliteration. And she tells us that we of the West are not the
only ones who have feared science would bring about the conclusion of time. She notes
that the regal Jaundiced Ones of the second earthly conflict feared their civilization was
being obliterated by the mechanized ethnicity of the West. Slavophiles of that similar
occasion spoke almost mournfully of the West’s extreme lucidity without understanding.
O’Famously writes: ‘Let us be mindful of that which is airborne around us and strive to
reach comparable heights in our own lives.’ O’Famously is founder of the Narrative
Factory, a distributor of narratives concerning the livelihood of beloved fervors,
bottomless reason and heavenly manifestation. She lives in the ethereal neon glow of 
- 80
Burial Chamber, Calif., with her questionably gendered companion and two mummified
Egyptian cats. Now Read What Others Are Saying About “A Clock in the Air”!
“In an era of dark aircraft soaring above our heads, livestock disfigurements and
extraterrestrial insects, the convincing comments made by O’Famously are especially
pertinent.” – The Divine Marketplace of Benign Ideas
“We are overwhelmed by end-of-the-world panic, Rapture sects, Keepers of the
Deity and apocalyptic appointments with God. O’Famously skillfully argues that
psychotic deviations reveal themselves in collective illusions. Her reading of aerial
timepieces as stand-ins for the prototype of completeness, a new force striving to assert
itself in an age of mental disintegration, is luminous and intense.” – The Twilight of
Satisfactoriness
“Electrifying! A tour de force. A bold new voice in American literature. This
book will save your marriage!” – The Usurping Person Who Reads
#
“Your world is dead,” The Stranger says. “It no longer functions. Your life no
longer functions. Sewn together romance comes off like the symbolic remains of the
1970s. I like this idea for cinema, but it’s bad for real life. We must trust the inner world,
the one that lies behind solid things. It’s time you started trusting me – that is, your inner
director.”
“How can I trust what I haven’t seen?”
“Right you are. Enough waiting for Jack. Let’s go to the movies.”
#
- 81
#
We drive out to the derelict Hi-Way 114 Drive-In Theatre in The Stranger’s little
deuce coupe, turning off the asphalt onto the old entry drive, gravel crunching under the
treads.
Headlights on the ranch gate, The Stranger leaves the car running while he gets
out to unlock the heavy chain. I drive past this place a couple of times a day, but here in
the feeble headlight glow I see something new: a rebuilt refreshment stand/projection
booth. Strange, for the old one burned down years ago. How could I have missed such a
major work of reconstruction?
“It’s a false front, built in a day,” The Stranger explains. “It’s just plywood and
posts. Same way they did the big Reata house in ‘Giant.’ Go down there to Marfa today
and you can still see the telephone poles sticking out of the ground.”
As we drive onto the property I notice a new sign: Armageddon Drive-In Theatre.
I say new, but it actually looks old, a resurrection of faded ‘50s roadside advertising held
tight in a tangle of broken neon tubes.
“I’ve leased this place from Dollar Bill Buckstop for filming the climax of the
movie, the Battle of Armageddon scene,” The Stranger explains. “Thanks to my efforts,
it’s actually once again a working theater. Well, my efforts and theirs.”
The Strangers takes in the dashboard view with a grand sweep of his arm, and I
see that we are not alone. Perhaps two dozen cars are parked in front of the old screen. A
young man with scraggly goatee and sleeveless flannel shirt kneels on the roof of a circa
1960s aluminum camper, working on what appears to be a combination
projector/oscilloscope.
“It’s a conventional 35mm projector,” the Stranger explains. “But it’s hooked up
to a small black box with an oscilloscope on front and a coil of clear tubing on the
aperture gate.” He holds up a little black cube with a pushbutton pad. “It’s even got
remote control.”
We pull up to a metal speaker pole, and The Stranger hangs one of the weathered
aluminum speakers in his window.
“This one is surplus, from the old Texas Stadium Drive-In in Irving,” he explains.
“Look, it’s still says ‘Stadium’ on the front.”
“Who are these people?” I ask. “What is all this?”
“Guerrilla drive-in movie theater.”
“What?”
“Do-it-yourself movies. They’re popping up everywhere, from L.A. to New York
City, big cities and small towns. Most of the time they set up in dark parking lots behind
industrial warehouses. But they really prefer to stage their events at old drive-ins like this
one.”
A dark-haired girl in a flowing peasant skirt and thick black frame glasses taps on
my window. I roll down the window, and she gives me a handbill:
“Deep Ellum Guerilla Drive-In. Breathe Retro, Take pleasure in a Retro Show!
Deep Ellum Guerilla Drive-In is precisely what it seems to be – an al fresco cinema
beneath the heavens that materializes without warning on undeveloped rural plots and in
the profit-making wilderness. Guerilla Drive-In is serving to rescue community liberty
and change our metropolitan surroundings into the pleasant world of recreation that it is
meant to be. Grab your ectoplasm-stained bedspreads, grass stools and sexually-willing 
- 82
acquaintances. Prepare to engage in jug wine, oral sex (or oral wine, jug sex!) and salty
nibbles on vintage Cutlass black vinyl accompanied by the wonders of 1950s B-movie
sci-fi. Endowments are greeted with much appreciation. Tonight at the Deep Ellum
Guerilla Drive-In – a midnight creature feature based on the dream cinema of The
Stranger! (Special thanks to the creator of the concept, the Santa Cruz Guerilla DriveIn.)”
The old Hi-way 114 screen – still standing after all these years – begins to flicker
to life in a greenish blue glow. The window speaker from the Stadium Drive-In crackles
with static electricity.
“Sounds like the ocean,” I observe.
“Gaseous and liquid cinema. Based on a concept by Salvador Dali.”
#
The first offering is called “Give Elmo and Charlie a Blast,” an obvious take-off
on the popular movie review show.
“But this one has a twist,” The Stranger explains. “Elmo and Charlie only review
movies that have yet to be made. If they really like a concept, then they agree to produce
it. Last year, they released ‘Valley of the Nanobots’.”
#
Charlie: Hi, I’m Charlie Rebosto.
Elmo: And I’m Elmo Plumbline. Today we begin with a review of ‘Boom-Crash!
The Freud Dude’s Two-Bodied Leach meets The G&C Mafia.’
Charlie: And what a great choice this is. The slapstick blast from this pseudodocumentary could be quite engaging.
Elmo: It even employs butt-scratching monkeys.
Charlie: A nod to Darwin. We could work in the Book of Revelation, let the Deity
prepare a place the viewers have not seen since childhood. We'll remind them that inside
the fish, Jonah was really free. Back on shore, he was dead.
Elmo: And a whiner.
Charlie: The certain dream message isn't any less important, though I am still
compelled to issue it.
Elmo: The dead, dread, fearful specters are still accessible. And through
Technicolor romance, they are coming off somehow feeling true. Two-dimensional
affection is an important part of the plot. And death, too - with many gutsy explosions
and free-flowing blood. There is an authority in death. Even the newspaper world is dead.
Charlie: That's the story. Call it “The Penetrated Writer.” A gunshot to the heart,
and yet the body continues to function. This whole process is death because many have
tried to ignore the eternal world, regard it as a mutation. It has my word on it. They told
me to forget; that is some bad advice. The message is not.
Elmo: You know, Charlie, this could be Mark Leach’s magnum opus, the longawaited two-bodied masterpiece. The world as mutation. In fact, it is a metaphor for his
birth of - and in -- a new form. His face is transfigured.
Charlie: Next, we take a look at ‘My Lovely Creation,’ a beautiful film short,
tight but so obsessed with the egregious moral failure of ectoplasm imperfectly deployed.
This masterpiece has him telling off himself, so depressed about how his DNA both
creates and destroys.
- 83
Elmo: That’s right. Do not be about the rotting remains, Mark, unknown and
cloaked in the knowledge that bars none.
Charlie: You know, ha ha – and I must shake my head with great condescension –
it’s as if Mark Times Two wishes all he had to do was become a figurative being in the
Land of the Dead, a Revelation described to the mind, a maze in a cliché-cramming
contest.
Elmo: And for an experience just as nourishing, you may want to option his flick
“Bad Dream for Tumbleweed Cowboy: A B-Movie Western for the End of the World.”
Let’s roll a short clip.
#
The Tumbleweed Cowboy rides his black, snorting stallion through a melancholy
dream, following the stars that would guide him home.
"Curse you stars, it's too dark a place you be taking us through," he complains,
and the horse neighs its mutual discontent. "Why can't you shine a little brighter and lead
us during daylight?"
Suddenly, a howling coyote wind lifts the Tumbleweed Cowboy out of his saddle,
sends him cartwheeling across the darkened dreamscape. He comes to rest along a
tumbled down fence line, boots poking straight up at the sky. He reaches for his trusty
horse's reins, but a shooting star screams across the heavens and scares the animal away.
"Dang you, stars. Why you have to go and shoot your star-shooter at ole Blackie?
Now I'm all alone, tangled up here in this rusty old bob wire forever."
Despite the Tumbleweed Cowboy's ignorance of basic science (shooting stars
being only meteorites, of course), the stars take pity on him and guide a yellow-haired
nightmare to his aid. But when the pretty filly arrives, she is disappointed to find that this
particular cowboy is really no more than a ball of sticks.
"I'd been dreaming of a carrot," she says.
"Well, I'm just an old tumbleweed. No use cryin' about what I ain't."
This unrepentant tone makes the nightmare angry, and she knocks the cowboy
from the fence and stomps him into a pile of splinters.
Back at the ranch, the other nightmares console the wronged creature. "Yup, that's
a man for you. All stick and no carrot."
Listening unseen from the shadows, the stallion quietly snorts at this feminine
treachery and flies back across the dream to the aid of the Tumbleweed Cowboy.
When he arrives, sure enough, his master is dead, nothing but a broken shell. "I
won't let you die in vain, Tumbleweed Cowboy," the horse declares. "I won't rest till your
death has been avenged."
But just then, a passing rodeo clown hears the stallion. He lassos the unsuspecting
beast and sells him to a traveling circus, where they geld him and make him spend the
rest of his days giving pony rides in the happy dreams of unpleasant children. The stars
can only shake their heads and smile. "Ah, the folly of horse and man!"
#
Elmo: Attention Mark Leach. Kafka is holding on the red phone.
Charlie: This could prove to be one of my favorite Leach films. There is a lot of
movie imagery in the Land of the Dead. He is all about the movie. Hey – there's a
concept! His world as eternal cinema.
- 84
Elmo: In preparation for the full-body, cellular split, the domestically challenged
Mark died in the dishes, so to speak, outside a combination gas station/Germany bakery
in West, Texas, on the Sunday before Christmas 1999. As he tells it, he sat in the car
while his wife went inside for kolaches. The sun had taken on a discouraging slant in the
sky. Darkness was closing in.
Charlie: It’s interesting, but I have a question. By accepting this rather pedestrian
explanation for the origin of the Tumbleweed Cowboy, are we required to fully dismiss
the concept of a genuine equine alien abduction? Carl Jung -
Elmo: Yes, yes, Charlie, we all know Carl is timeless. He seems to be about the
idea of it all, but I'll certainly not be sending for him. “Go back, Carl,” I'd say, “the
church is dying.” You like?
Charlie: Actually, we’re in agreement.
Elmo: Yes?
Charlie: Yes.
Elmo: Then send over the courier. I’m sure Two-Bodied Mark –
Charlie: Mark Times Two.
Elmo: -- can deal quite nicely with our offer. Deny the world. It is dead. It no
longer functions. The Fiend of the Unconscious wants to be our today. And just as
nourishing, Mark’s flick nightmare of three hours of dreary underwater Jonah. This is the
main thing.
Charlie: Next, let’s try the third eye dream from ‘The Voice of God.’ This one
leads to fashion, a mascara eye abdomen viewed through magnifying plexiglas.
Elmo: Don’t give it away, though. First let’s roll the clip.
#
And the journey through prohibited places continues.
Allison and I are in a strange place, an alien society. We are fleeing from unseen
people in a seemingly abandoned structure, maybe a stadium. The design is somewhat
reminiscent of the UFO house, but on a much larger and grander scale.
We spot a place almost out of sight, near the base, where you can observe the
underlying construction. Allison comments that we can see the steel support beams. As
we look for a hiding place, we find a marble alcove reminiscent of ancient Roman
architecture. It is perhaps the size of a bedroom. This alcove is out of sight, but I
immediately realize that if we are found here there will be no escape. We will be trapped.
So we go in search of a more secure place of safety.
It is then that we realize there are people everywhere, hurrying about in search of
their own hiding places. It is growing dark, suggesting to me that the time to get out of
sight is almost here. I realize that we are not well suited for this. I am wearing only white
boxers – my preferred sleeping attire – and Allison is in little more than shorts and a top.
Where to go? I see a young black man, very dark. He is shirtless. I instantly fear him –
and all of the obviously desperate people around us. This man will rape my wife, or
someone else will. Where to go?
I see a flight of steps leading to a lower level. The black man waves his hand,
showing us the way down the steps. Like an usher in a movie theater.
“I will take you to a place of safety,” he says.
I do not trust him, so I grab Allison’s hand and we bolt through a doorway to the
outside.
- 85
We find ourselves standing under a loggia, looking out on a plaza that reminds me
of the main square in New Orleans’ French Quarter. Many people are relaxing in small
groups. All of them are young and beautiful, the elite of this society. They are obviously
of a higher social cast than the underground people who must scramble for shelter before
nightfall.
They are dressed for leisure, though in a way I have never seen. On their
washboard abs, each person displays a large, painted eye. It is the Eye of Horus, the
ancient Egyptian visual rumor used to ward off sickness and bring the dead back to life.
The latter must be the case here, for the eye was also used as an amulet over the
embalmer’s incision. That’s how you made a suitable mummy.
The Eye of Horus is a particularly fitting image for this point in the journey, for it
was only the day before – in the waking world – that I was reading the Old Testament
story of Joseph’s dream and his resulting enslavement in Egypt. This was his destiny.
These Third Eye people look us over, instantly judging us to be the inferior,
underground species. We do not belong; they fear us. Not waiting for them to act on their
judgment, we run toward the street at the end of the loggia. This creates some excitement.
I kick someone in their abdominal eye, and Allison – now inexplicably holding a baby in
her arms – breaks into a run. Another of the Third Eye people produces a large plastic
lens (square, perhaps 15 to 20 inches per side) and places it in front of my stomach.
Apparently, this action is intended to draw attention to the fact that my abdomen does not
possess the required cyclopean makeup. I am blind.
I try to follow Allison, but the path is barred by a man. He is a sort of henchman
for the man in charge, who I somehow know. I try to fight him. Someone hands me the
blade of a plastic toy sword, and the man in charge laughs. Someone else hands me the
handle, and I hastily assemble the two pieces. Even though it is a toy, I realize that it is a
real sword. It can injure, even kill.
With this weapon, I lunge at the man in charge. But I miss, and he disarms me. He
thrusts the sword deep into my pelvis. As he withdraws the weapon, there is a thought in
my head (or maybe the man is speaking it) that the sword is stuck inside me. The pain is
real, but I understand that I will recover from this wound. I will heal and live to fight
again.
#
Elmo: I don’t mind telling you I feared those three eye folks. Scary slasher flick!
Charlie: Talk about incredible revelations. Already knowing the story, you just
want to warn him “watch out for the plastic swords.”
Elmo: And then cry. You have to be careful.
Charlie: Yes, and you must also watch out for the fire and brimstone.
Elmo: Agreed. Let’s roll that clip, too.
#
Here’s one way the world ends: The backyard goes nuclear.
As in most B-movie sci-fi concepts, the moviegoer is not necessarily meant to
comprehend all the scientific details. All the viewer knows for sure is a chain reaction
involving commonplace materials results in a dramatic volcanic eruption. Crimson fire
rains from the nocturnal sky. (Director’s note: Shoot this scene through a lens or prism
onto feeling-toned print stock.)
- 86
We run for the house, reaching safety just ahead of the swirling lava and
brimstone. Of course, radioactivity is still a major concern. How many curies of original
experience can we safely absorb?
The door won’t hold back the lava for long. As the protagonist, it is my job to
realize we must get away. But there is no place to go. It is happening everywhere now.
Nuclear war.
So we all gather in the foyer to make our escape. I dress for the pilgrim’s journey,
slipping a necktie and overcoat over my pajamas. The radiation is heating up the house; it
feels like the August sun. I see our neighbors in the street, driving away to the hills. But
my people and I, we have no car, no way of escape. We are left behind.
The nuclear summer doesn’t last long. The half life of visionary transformation
must be very short indeed, for the scorching temperature quickly drops and the rain
begins to fall. I observe this meteorological change from my perch on the depleted limb
of a sycamore, an ideal location to study the Next Arrival.
This is the world of fire. The old way of living – the commonplace world of solid
things and comfortable, unchallenged theologies – has been annihilated. I see that we
must think differently now, start planning for a new life. Our immediate priority should
be to collect the rain, the living water, the grace of the Deity. Even as I experience this
revelation, I see that others are already bottling the novel vintage. They too know we
must save this divine gift for the future. We must begin our new lives, the lives of
radiance – the lives that we dream for ourselves after the End of the World.
#
“That was incomprehensible,” I say. My head is spinning. My secrets are
escaping into the everyday. Is the young dark-haired girl in the peasant dress looking at
me?
“Watch this. Here comes the sponsor’s commercial.”
A flock of iridescent funeral crows wheel across a clear blue sky, delighting an
attractive couple while they enjoy a picnic in a field of billowing winter rye, golden
retriever puppy and the whistle of an unseen train. The man touches the woman’s long
hair, and her eyelids flutter appreciatively. The disembodied sponsor speaks: “Conquer
the reluctant orgasm with Climaxia, the first intra-vaginal paradisiacal locomotive.” The
screen goes dark.
The Stranger falls over on his side, laughing hysterically. “Ah my Deity,” he says.
“I don’t care how many times I see that one, it just cracks me up. Sometimes – well, it’s
as if there are never enough orgasms in the world.”
“You’re telling too much. About us. Me.”
“But this is who you are – who we are. Didn’t you know?”
“How does it happen?”
“What?”
“Allison and me.”
“Why do you want to talk about that, right now? It’s not even intermission. We’ve
yet to crack the seal on the jug wine. And what of the flavored condoms?”
“If I knew what was going to happen, maybe I could change.”
“You can’t. You won’t.”
“Tell me anyway. How do I lose her?”
“You meet Cinnamon.”
- 87
“Please.”
"If you’re not going to believe me – ”
"I’m not going to leave Allison for Cinnamon. I’m not an idiot.”
“But you would leave Allison for LeAnn.”
I think for a moment. “You may be right,” I admit.
“There is good news, though,” the Stranger adds. “We do emerge from the
darkness.”
“How so?”
“We emerge the only way available to us. We film our way out. Here is a news
release I have prepared for the world premier.”
#
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
#
Contact:
Strangers Rest Pictograph
P.O. Box 549
Burial Chamber, Calif.
#
A CLOCKWORK MANDALA: THE MAKING OF THE ARMAGEDDON
DRIVE-IN
By Mark Leach
The art that results in epic films of the conclusion of time is in fact a difficult theft
imposed by the moviemaker upon himself.
To continue for hundreds of humorless minutes of extravagant Technicolor
footage to amplify a dream that in the ideal case can be conveyed in a small quantity of
cheap video tape – this is truly a waste of celluloid. (In the event this should some day be
read by a scholar of Latin American literature who is a stickler for attribution, I should
acknowledge that the idea presented here is actually derivative. I am channeling Borges
now.)
While the movie director may yet wish and hope to one day deliver the envisioned
vision, the improved process must be to claim that the movie is already a major motion
picture in a theater near you. And then the director may present a well-considered yet
economical commentary – perhaps a brief “making of” documentary – on the newly
animated creation. As a moral issue, this approach is more notably and incapably decayed
than that of true creative labor. Nevertheless, I have on occasion submitted myself to this
decay, creating entire cinematic dramas that exist only in my imagination.
So it is with “Strangers Rest.”
In the intimidating state of affairs of the Earth nowadays, when members of the
populace start to observe that all is at risk, the interior cinematic dream flies further than
the kingdom of worldly associations and authorities and on into paradise, into outer space
and the stars. This is the realm where the monarchs of individual destiny, the deities, long
ago made their home. I speak to others like me, those who are compelled to live with the
chronic existential dilemma. Even members of the populace who would by no means
have considered that a spiritual difficulty could be a grave subject that worried them
individually are starting to pose to themselves some basic existential questions. Beneath
these situations it would not be in any way astonishing if those parts of society who ask 
- 88
no questions of themselves in the waking world were called on by the interior cinematic
dreams, by an extensive legend gravely supposed to be true by a number of people and
discarded as ridiculous by an additional group.
Such a personal calling comes to mind, a book my mother showed me when I was
a boy. A slim paperback from her childhood, pages yellowed and brittle with age. A
dream dictionary. I don't remember much about that little book. It was a sort of guide for
divination, I think, for helping you determine the course of future events. Pretty common
stuff in the first half of the last century. In her church-going home, though, I suspect it
was regarded as a mere novelty item. But I didn't know that. I thought it was the real
thing, and I couldn't believe my good fortune. This was a treasure: a book that would tell
you what your dreams meant. Then I grew up, and I dismissed the childhood treasure.
There was no unifying global pattern. Dreams became meaningless, insignificant
occurrences. I stopped believing in these far-away fables, in their impossible forms and
conditions.
And yet, I now realize it is not necessary to believe. The film director is not a
creature gifted with a liberated and rational vision of his own individual belief. Rather,
his personal goals are overshadowed by art, which becomes aware of and realizes its
intentions through him. As an individual he issues personal decrees and makes personal
decisions and sets personal goals. But as a film director, he pursues an elevated way. He
is the Communal Being, a means of transportation to and a shaper of the comatose
supernatural existence that is actually the foundation of all humanity.
And so it is that I have committed to film my novel tale, an Illusion of Happiness.
This tale is best understood while on high, giddy flights into the abstract, one of my “king
of the world” trips. I am susceptible to a certain racing of thoughts, a sense that I am
somehow onto something seen only by me (through my Egyptian third eye, of course).
The sky turns a different color, the big dome of heaven ablaze in the multihued shades of
indulged compulsions. I am dizzy with the superimposed light of my own odd, eccentric
convictions. If only I had migraine auras! So I don the Mask of Smiles, my preferred
attire for engaging the practiced world of apparent normalcy, and I write my little
thoughts. I am authenticated. Then the inevitable nightfall. Metaphors crumble under the
impossible weight. The screen goes black; the projector is out of film. I have out-dreamed
myself. Illumination becomes illusion. It is all hallucination now, one more magical,
broken symptom. I am left to wander the dark emptiness, chasing spectral notions and
The Stranger, who is me.
#
Now The Stranger is on the big screen, seated in a crimson wingback next to a
roaring fire with an ascot under his crushed velvet smoking jacket and a crystal brandy
snifter in hand. A leather-bound book with gold edged pages lay open on his lap.
“Good evening,” the televised Stranger entones. "Tonight on 'The Third Eye' we
continue our series on castration nightmares with 'Sodomization of the Muse.' This is a
dream I had while I was still married. The circumstances --"
“Magnetica?” I ask.
“Yes, Magnetica. It’s a good dream.”
“People will think I'm demented, afraid of vaginas."
“You cannot stop people from thinking.”
“But Allison –“
- 89
“I recall an idea expressed by Nicholas Roeg, the director of ‘The Man Who Fell
to the Earth.’ He suggested that a cinematic creation is more than the documentation of
an incredible revelation. It is a sentient being. As the cinematic creation is being filmed it
becomes aware of and embarks upon a unique and personal existence. The director of the
epic film is much like a race car driver, ready to accelerate into the warm flesh of desire.
But in this metaphor, all of the driver controls – the steering wheel, brakes, accelerator –
are ineffective. The cinematic creation cannot be made to behave in any particular
fashion. Behavioral control is the way that leads to death.”
#
In college again, in the bedroom of your on-campus apartment. It is daytime -
maybe morning, a Saturday you believe. You have a girl in your room. She is sexually
willing. You are not seriously interested in her, but you are interested in her willingness.
The two of you begin to take off your clothes.
Beneath her outer garments she is wearing a sort of black body stocking, very
tight. She grimaces and writhes violently to shed it, like a snake exiting its skin. You
cannot help but notice that she is no beauty. She looks tired, with flattened, deflated
breasts. You take off your shirt and, still focused on her sagging condition, hold in your
middle-aged stomach. You enthusiasm is lagging, but you remain grimly determined to
proceed. After all, you are still interested in her willingness.
“But first,” she says,” we’re going to do the Mattel Barbie Speak and Say.”
She brings out a talking children’s toy, but can’t get it to talk. The ring on the end
of the pull string is missing.
So she gives you a pair of surgical retractors, which you are to use to grasp the
string. You attempt the maneuver, but fail. Instead of grabbing the string, you cut it in
two. You try again, but the result is the same. So you take another look at the retractor.
This time, you see that it is actually part retractor/part scissors.
She takes the instrument back and tries, too. Sitting on the edge of the bed, she
holds the Speak and Say between her knees as she works the retractor. She has no luck,
either. But you notice that she is carefully pulling the shiny steel handles of the retractor
out of her vagina. Only the blades are fully visible. You are chilled to the core by this
terrible image, but before you can do or say anything you hear the automatic garage door
opening.
Panicked, you run to the door. Sure enough, your roommates have arrived. They
see you standing in the doorway.
“Oh hi,” you say. “Sorry, gotta go.”
You slam the door and run back to your room. You want the girl to leave. You do
not want your roommates to know what you have been up to with Ms. Barbie Speak and
Say. It is too awful to think about.
Fortunately, the girl is busy dressing, so you close the bedroom door and go to the
den to intercept your roommates. You find the room is filled with people -- your
roommates plus their ROTC friends. Everyone is in military uniform.
They have been on some sort of training exercise and inspection. Exhausted, they
all fall on the floor together in a sweaty heap. And then they begin to pull out heretical
sacraments.
“We tested clean, now we can take sacraments again,” one of them explains. He
peels the plastic wrap off a tampon-shaped object and shoves it hard against his nose.
- 90
#
"Some things are better left unsaid,” I remark. “No wonder Allison divorces you.”
“You can’t hold in the truth forever.”
"But you could have tried.”
“Small things have a way of being big things when you neglect them. Have you
already forgotten about Missy?”
#
Oh no. I remember – the door to the laundry room, prison of Missy. I really
should let her out. It’s been days.
But when I open it, there is no little dog. I am confronted by a Bengal tiger. How
did it get here? I don’t know, and there’s no time to wonder.
I go into the garage and close the door to the house behind me. But still I am not
safe. I see that the tiger has gotten through the door and is in the garage with me. I scream
loudly in a ferocious way. I am apparently convincing, because the animal jumps back
into the house.
After it leaves, I see that the door that I thought would hold this creature back has
an enormous gap at the bottom. Plus, it has been repaired with pieces of plywood. Not
very substantial. So I decide to take a side door to the outside. This door has also been
repaired with plywood, and I realize it will not hold back the tiger, either. My only hope
is to run.
I find myself in a typically subdivision of the 1970s. I turn right and run down the
sidewalk, which gently curves to the left. In the sidewalk, I come to a parked bike, which
could help in my escape but I do not take it. That would be stealing and cause even more
problems for me.
Also in the middle of the sidewalk I come upon a tall, cylindrical object, perhaps
6 feet high. It reminds me a bit of a crayon standing on its flat end. Is it a weapon? I do
not know.
I reach the end of the street, arriving at a larger thoroughfare. This road appears to
be Big Stone Gap in Duncanville, my home town. Across the street, children are playing
in a field or perhaps a park. There are many bikes parked here. But again, I do not take
any of them. Instead, I turn right and continue running. It occurs to me that the tiger will
be able to track me by scent, so I decide to leave the sidewalk. I run on the grass a short
distance, thinking this will throw him off. Next I come to a park, and sitting by the road I
see a woman with her child. I run over to her. She has a cell phone, so I ask if I can use it
to call the police. But she makes the phone call herself.
“Yes, there is a problem here and my cousin needs help,” she tells the dispatcher.
I am amazed that she knows me, believes we are related. I don’t even recognize
her.
#
“No, I’m never going to forget that.”
“Want to watch some more?"
"I’ve had enough castration fears for one night.”
The screen goes dead.
“But I still don't get it,” I say. “She’s not even all that hot.”
“Who?”
“Cinnamon.”
- 91
The Stranger stares at me, slowly shaking his head. "You know, sometimes I just
can't believe we're really the same person."
#
- 92
#
Director’s note: Now we come to the gratuitous sex scene. While The Stranger
and I watch movies at the Armageddon Drive-In, Jack is letting his sleek dog run. He is
heading into Strangers Rest, to Another Café, where he will penetrate Tina’s teenaged
membranes in a steamy shower episode. This scene even manages to advance the plot.
Come to think of it, the sex is really not gratuitous at all. It’s necessary to the story. So
you would do well to pay attention. Perhaps you and I could watch from the back seat of
the Cutlass? Pretty.
#
Tina in the shower.
Tina naked in the shower.
Sex with Tina naked in the shower.
Quietly unlocking the deadbolt, Jack slips inside the little apartment where Tina
lives above Another Cafe. He steps out of his shoes, eases past the kitchenette of ‘60s
avacado green, through the little living room of gold shag carpet (just big enough for an
ancient – and inoperative – console TV and a vinyl sofa with duct tape on the arms) and
into the bedroom.
Tina is standing with her back to him, unhooking her bra and dropping it on the
dresser. The mirror over the dresser is positioned so Jack can just see the front of her
torso, smooth and perfect skin left peeled and exposed, nothing left to shed but her bright
red lipstick and panties. She puts her hands on her hips, begins to slide them down. And
then she sees Jack.
“You bastard,” she says, a heart-thumping outburst that instantly switches from
fear (“what is a man doing in my bedroom?”) to anger.
“What the hell are you doing?” she says, futilely trying to gather up her errant
breasts in slim, teenaged arms. Jack notes her failure, and his attention locks onto the
right nipple, a bulging eye peaking out at him from behind a peach fuzzed forearm. Her
naked body is still an exciting image, because he knows he was her first. He is gazing
upon territory never viewed by any man before him, except perhaps a licensed physician.
``Hi,’’ he says.
``Hi? Is `hi’ all you can say?’’
Jack admires her blazing eyes, angry and wild. Just like the night she threw the
lamp at him. Yes, this is going to be better than Corvette. But first there were a few
formalities to dispatch.
``I’m sorry, I just wanted to surprise you. I didn’t mean to scare you.’’
``You bastard,’’ she repeats, quieter now, snatching the comforter off the bed and
wrapping it around her, from neck to feet. ``You’ve got a lot of nerve.’’
``I know, I’m sorry,’’ he says. ``I should have called. What can I do to make it up
to you?’’
Of course, he knows this is the wrong thing to say as soon as he says it. Rules
have been violated. He hasn’t allowed enough time for anger, pushing too soon for
resolution. It was an amateurish move, something Mark might pull. And now he will
have to move his game piece back another space on the board.
But, as it turns out, this is the least of his problems.
- 93
``How about explaining this?’’ she hisses, throwing open her jewelry box and
coming up with a Polaroid picture. She flings it across the room, catching Jack in the
chest. He looks at the picture and freezes.
It is a picture of Cinnamon, taken during a wet T-shirt contest the previous week.
The picture was snapped about two seconds after the T-shirt was no longer an integral
part of the contest. Or her attire. Even under the present circumstances, Jack can’t help
noting that Cinnamon was a very healthy looking girl.
``What, are you looking at her, checking her out, is that what you’re doing?’’ Tina
asks, the tendons in her neck bulging and taut as she leans into her saying. ``Would you
just rather be with her?’
``No, baby, no,’’ Jack insists, flinging the picture into a trash can beside the door.
``I don’t even know her.’’
``Oh, you bastard,’’ she fumes. ``Bastard, bastard, bastard.’’
``It’s true, I swear it. That picture’s not even mine.’’
``It was just in your pants. Maybe somebody planted in there, some naked whore
you don’t even know.’’
``No, I don’t mean that. I know how it got there, it --.’’
``You bastard.’’
``I was holding it for a friend, then we both forgot all about it.’’
``That’s so lame. Who’s the friend?’’
Her eyes boring into him, there is no room for hesitation. He has only one chance,
and no time to figure the odds. He speaks the first name that popped into his head, which
of course is Mark Leach.
``Mark? What’s he doing with a picture of a naked girl?’’
``He met her at a primal temple, a place he was doing a story on. He didn’t want
his wife to find out.’’
Had he the luxury of another moment’s thought, Jack would surely have made up
a better story. Because of all the lies he could have spun about that picture and the girl in
it, Mark was the least likely male to inject into it. Mark making time with a topless
dancer? He might as well as said Mr. Rogers, it was so preposterous. And yet, there must
be some genius working in that fraction of a second it takes him to pull up the name.
Because Tina is buying it.
``Mark’s having an affair with that woman?’’ she asks, her eyes gone round like
saucers.
``Oh no, they just talked, you know, he was interviewing her,’’ Jack explains,
quick to capitalize on her curiosity as well as diffuse the story. He needs her to believe it
isn’t his picture, but he doesn’t want her asking Mark about his new topless girlfriend,
either. ``It was like she meant it as a gift to him, for being so nice.’’
``Oh, I see,’’ Tina says softly, letting the story soak in. ``He is a nice man.’’
``I don’t even know that woman,’’ he adds.
And she buys it.
``I’m -- I’m sorry, Jack,’’ she says, almost crying with joy that she has not been
deceived. Jack rounds the bed and they embrace -- after she dropped the comforter, of
course. After waiting a decent length of time (about 10 seconds), he slides his hands
down her back and slipped eager fingertips inside her panties. She takes them off and
drops them to the floor.
- 94
``Oh, I’ve gone and left the shower running,’’ she says dreamily, looking behind
Jack at the open bathroom door. Jack turns to see the wet cloud of steam billowing out
over the top of the shower curtain and disappearing in the chilled air.
``You better hurry before all the hot water’s gone,’’ he says.
``You’ll wait for me then?’’ she asks, ducking her head and stepping back from
him coquettishly -- just an arm’s length -- so he would be able to see her naked body. She
knows he likes looking, and she has found in recent days that she had lost her shyness
and quite likes it when he looks.
``Just don’t take too long.’’
After she closes the bathroom door behind her, and Jack can hear the splash of the
water change as she stepped under the stream, he retrieves the picture of Cinnamon from
the trash can. He looks it over again. Yes, she is very healthy looking. But at that
moment, standing in view of Tina’s underwear and within earshot of the shower that is
washing over her, the body in the picture seems somehow diminished. It is as if by
allowing so many men to gaze upon her (for money, parceled out one ragged dollar bill at
a time), Cinnamon has turned her asset into the most commonplace of commodities. Not
like Tina.
He slips the photo into his pants pocket (this pair he definitely wouldn’t leave for
her to wash) and opens the bathroom door. The roar of the shower fills his ears. Steam
fogs the mirror. He quickly sheds his clothes and pulls back the brown plastic shower
curtain.
This time, Tina is not startled to see him. He steps over the side of the tub, and
she presses her breasts against his chest. She knows he likes that. But instead of taking
her in his arms, he takes her by the shoulders and turns her around. Oh, so he wants that
again, she thinks, and a wry smile creeps across her face.
As if choreographed, she dutifully bends over at the waist and grabs her legs just
above the ankles. Jack grasps her by the hips and pulls her toward him for the
penetration.
The DNA delivery organ slides in smooth and sure like a well oiled cam. The
water thunders down her back, turning her pink skin lobster red. She turns her head
slightly, cocking an admiring eye up toward Jack as he watches the water spill down her
neck and over her full, open mouth.
#
Charlie: Ah yes, a film committed to the full frontal ‘yes’ of an ‘80s wet dream. I
wished I was in that one –
Elmo: Don’t we all.
Charlie: Ah, a vision of the night, the symbolic language of it leaves everything to
the mind, in the shower stall, ectoplasm swirling down the grated drain. A pulpit for the
boredom of the genius, personified by a well oiled cam.
Elmo: Flesh in a wet, dark, dull hot day, listening to doomed banjos, penetrating
membranes and plotting other cliches.
Charlie: No? Of course, you are right. The concept is predictable. Yawn. Poorly
sculpted fluff. We deal quite nicely with their offer. Who needs the money? This is me.
Elmo: If I was Mark, then I would determine that being myself is the correct role
for me. In the full motion picture, I would try to ignore the world, lost in my ridiculous
words. And shrug. Trust me, it looks good on the wide screen. Wow. Now it no longer 
- 95
functions. For years, I have been repeating an inner process, a process revisited
throughout the rest of the film, that the basement is flooded. This is the resting place of
the forgotten, abandoned gold. Somehow it talks. Is God communicating my destiny? Or
is that ‘All the President's Men,’ together in the future outward events? Revelation, life,
marriage. The origin of those transmissions may not be the blind seducing blind, lying on
a pile of pebbles outside the abandoned church. It dreams of the divine, weirdly
engaging. Whoa, a new life form. We can work in some conflict, too, see? I tried society,
but communicated with The Deity above the concrete and rational. We are for him. And
yet, a message is not funny. Boring.
Charlie: How about The Stranger films a stately musical? Call it ‘Sometimes
Known.’ In ancient times, men were the apocalypse. Let Jonah run away from
Christendom. Concept: The keeping of life from perishing it. For The Deity does speak –
now in dreams. But balance out the heavy with fluff. A dog delighted, a languid blood
bath waltz that has the feeling of a dream. The idea is to have him look for himself some
night. Why? Because an army of scum-sucking violet pizza-eating dinosaurs is out to get
him. In this movie dream, we can all identify. We all know for ourselves. We are drawn
to it. And The Deity. My, but I do not feel that I am myself, lost in this erotic place. See
what I mean? Blockbuster.
Elmo: The Oscar goes to success, an encounter with Christendom. The fish will
bring him the last question. One final masterpiece, as good as the world is dead. What a
story. In the full motion picture, we are true to ourselves. We can be proud. Then, we
move on to Catherine Zeta-Jones in bend-over spandex. Ha ha! It means I am a seer. But
here is the irony: In fact, I cannot dream.
Charlie: The message isn’t any less me. Dreams are a nightmare of thoughts,
giving me time to freely (i.e., those of ourselves, where we understand the story of a
loving, forgiving everyone) look like me, the reborn in my ridiculous words. And we
speak of a journey of revelation. In a sense, we all do. Such a dream film has not been
seen since childhood. We’re quoting them. It has been all the same since the beginning of
the process, a process of death and the contents. We can no longer deny the still man. I
am the rational, over the dream phone presented as – what is the phrase I am searching
for?
Charlie: The total denial of reality.
# 
- 96
#
Morning at the Oddfellows Cemetery. The script calls for Father Bypass to finally
re-consecrate the unmarked Catholic graves at the back of the property.
“He’s not a very good actor,” I tell The Stranger.
“It was because of the whiskey,” he explains. “I should have used prop whiskey.
Colored water. Anyway, he’s really perfect for the role.”
“He’s not even a priest.”
“He is now. I modified the script so that he is ordained by a dead pope over the
viral DNA dream phone. But he’s not motivated by conventional theological concerns.
No, he’s just doing this to make Cowboy Roy feel better. And, of course, he’s here to
advance the story line. We have a very important plot point in this scene.”
My role in this scene is to report on the re-consecration ceremony. After much
encouragement, Guy has finally decided he will take 10 to 12 inches for the Sunday
Neighborhood Extra.
“And I’m sending Special K to get a photo,” he adds.
I arrive a few minutes early so I can retrace a recent tour given me by Cowboy
Roy, a private tour of the pioneer-era resting place. But as I round the curve on Ottinger
Road that leads to the front gate, I realize that something big has changed. The level,
mowed field of tidy graves has become a steep hill, and grasses, weeds and thorny
brambles have taken the headstones of the tidy, well maintained pioneer resting place.
Just inside the gate, Hacher Jacobs, the cemetery’s volunteer grounds keeper,
crouches beside a tall monument. He is gathering up the brittle remains of a plastic floral
spray.
``Going to be another hot one,’’ he remarks. He rises slowly to his feet and wipes
the free-flowing sweat from his forehead with a crisp white handkerchief. ``I should have
got started a little earlier, beat the heat.’’
Hacher is oblivious to the inexplicable change in terrain. In fact, he just barely
notices the item parked behind him, a giant logging trailer. It looks like ones I’ve seen in
East Texas, the Piney Woods. But instead of carrying a load of freshly cut timber, it bears
four panels of rough pine logs lashed together with thick, vine-like ropes.
“What’s this?” I ask.
“It’s a clock tower. It’s supposed to be erected inside the cemetery, but the face of
the clock will face the outside.”
He looks at the trailer and scowls.
“You think that’s a mistake?” I ask.
“Of course it’s a mistake. It should face the cemetery. But no one bothered to ask
me.”
He scowls again and walks toward his house across the road. “I got to get my
mower. This place grows up so fast nowadays I can’t hardly keep up.”
#
Alone in a cemetery.
That’s really the best way to explore one, all by yourself. So quiet and peaceful. I
retrace the steps I’d taken with Cowboy Roy a few months before: epitaph for a former
post mistress of Strangers Rest (“Any mail today Miss Ida?”) … an angel-topped
obelisque marked the final resting place of Elizabeth Murphy, Cowboy Roy’s great
grandmother … a row of graves belonging to relatives of Clyde Barrow, the same one 
- 97
who had been visiting kinfolk in the area that fateful Easter Sunday morning when he and
Bonnie Parker murdered the highway patrolman on Dove Road off Texas 114 outside
Grapevine. (``But don’t write that,’’ Cowboy Roy warned me. ``Folks around here still
don’t like to admit they were related to an outlaw.’’)
I revisit the little iron fence containing a massive red cedar, long neglected irises
that almost never bloom and various lichen-stained tombstones delineating the family
plot of Morgan Gibson, a member of the Peters Colony that settled the area in the mid19th century. Cemetery records showed it was the site of the cemetery’s earliest burial,
the unmarked grave of a boy who died of spotted fever in 1856 just shy of his second
birthday. And a short distance away, I re-read the oft-quoted inscription on the marker of
one of the Oddfellows Cemetery’s many infant burial plots: “I don’t know why I was so
soon done, when I had hardly been begun.”
A few minutes later, a procession of three vehicles. Leading the way is Cowboy
Roy in the Bevomobile, followed by Father Bypass and The Stranger in the little deuce
coupe and the constable in his Toyota bubbletop. By the time I reach the bottom of the
hill, The Stranger is directing his cameraman and the sound crew while Father Bypass
unloads a set of matching black vinyl cases from the open rumble seat.
“What’s that, holy water?” Cowboy Roy asks.
“Just some equipment I use,” Father Bypass says. He crouches over the largest of
the cases, flipping up heavy brass latches and opening the satin-lined lid to reveal what
appears to be some sort of optical device, perhaps a telescope or camera. His fingers take
inventory of a long cylindrical canister with rough crackled barrel, a black rubber eye cup
and lavender-tinted lens set like a jewel in a heavy nickel mount. These items and others
each reside in their own velvet-lined cutouts.
“What are you going to do with all that?” Roy asks.
“Just take some readings,” Father Bypass says.
Then he opens a second case, revealing what appears to be a metal detector. The
constable didn’t like the look of it.
“I don’t know about this,” Sam said. “You got to have the permission of the
cemetery board before you can do any excavating.”
“I won’t be turning any ground, officer. Since there aren’t any markers, this is just
to help me better identify the location of the graves.”
Satisfied by the answer, Sam offers to carry one of the cases. Cowboy Roy leads
the way up the hill along a little dirt path. I fall in beside him. We walk past several rows
of headstones, then stop at the edge of an open expanse of grass.
“This is the old Mexican section,’’ Cowboy Roy remarks. “We found the calf
over there near the tree line.”
``I didn’t know Hispanics settled this far north,’’ Father Bypass says.
``They didn’t. They were here with the railroad, laying the tracks, see? When they
died, they buried them here at the back, but you wouldn’t know it because nobody ever
bothered to mark the graves. They was mighty poor, you see.’’
We all watch as Father Bypass readies the metal detector, plugging in a pair of
headphones and twisted a knob midway down the handle. Apparently satisfied, he nods
to himself and begins to slowly sweep the detector back and forth over the invisible
graves. Suddenly remembering he is not alone, he addresses the crowd.
- 98
“This could take a while,” he explains. “I’ll let you know when I’m ready to give
the blessing.”
Meanwhile, Cowboy Roy decides to show us what’s left of the calf.
“I dragged it over to the trees,” he says. “It’s pretty much rotted away, just a heap
of mouldy bones now.”
But when we arrive at the spot, the bones are gone. In their place, the body of a
freshly killed calf, eyes half open and milky white, abdomen split open and crudely sewn
back up with a strand of barbed wire. A star has been carved into its side.
“They did it again,” Roy says. ‘Just like before.”
``Devil worshippers all right,’’ Sam remarks. ``Must have had one of them black
masses. They probably did the sacrifice right here. Can you imagine it? Right here in our
cemetery.’’
``I figured this day would come,’’ Cowboy Roy says. ``There’s a whole witches’
coven up there in Ponder. Probably a bunch more we don't even know about. What’s this
world coming to?’’
#
When Special K arrives, he tries to take some preliminary shots of Father Bypass,
but Cowboy Roy insists that first he must photograph the calf.
“The sheriff’s department will need that for evidence, right Sam?” Roy asks.
But since the constable is not on particularly good terms with the sheriff (or
anyone else in county government), he just shrugs.
“To hell with ‘em,” he says.
Special K doesn’t mind. He sets himself to the job, screwing a squat looking lens
into the body of his camera. Roy decides to fill in the silence with some small talk.
“Why they call you Special K?”
The photographer looks at Roy, then gives me a quizzical look. I shrug in outward
mystery, but cringe in inward guilt.
Special K does not know his own nickname. He thinks he is Franklin Knopes, just
another member of the Attitude Adjustment Bureau. What makes him special? For one
thing, he spends the bulk of his workday energies on non-photographic endeavors, such
as operating the bureau’s soft drink machine and honor snack box. His other nickname is
Mr. Radio Shack, because he sells personal computers he assembles from components
acquired cheap at flea markets and warehouse sales.
But mainly he is special because when he does find time to take a picture, there’s
no telling what the image the negative might behold. Special K is the Register’s first
surreal photojournalist. For instance, there was the time he shot the front yard of a
disgruntled Bedford homeowner who had been cited on numerous occasions for his
overgrown lawn. Special K had stretched himself for this one, laying down on the
sidewalk so he could shoot the house through the San Augustine. When the picture
emerged from the dark room, it revealed a lawn of giant grass, each blade the width of
the front door and as tall as the house. The photo never appeared in print, but we kept it
around for entertainment value.
This time, though, Special K does not bother to stake out a surrealistic angle. He
doesn’t even use a light meter. He simply positions Cowboy Roy behind the dead calf,
takes a moment to focus and snaps the pictures. Then he looks at me.
“You going downtown, for The Meeting?” he asks
- 99
The Meeting. Called by Executive Editor Libby Wright, this all-hands meeting is
to be the kick-off presentation of the paper’s year-long editorial project. At 2 p.m., Libby
will unveil her Big Deal, a high-profile, community-oriented project that will focus the
paper’s resources on a single, broad-ranging topic. At least there will be refreshments.
“Wouldn’t miss it.”
“So where’s the priest?”
I point to Father Bypass, who is still using the metal detector.
“He’s looking for the graves,” I explain. “Shouldn’t be too much longer.”
He squints across the expanse of freshly cut grass. “Say, looks like he’s using a
Seibel 9110,” Special K observes. “And it looks like he’s modified the receptor coil.
Think I’ll check this out.”
While Special K pesters Father Bypass, Cowboy Roy leads me to the back fence
line to identify the one grave we’d been unable to reach on our previous tour, a grave
located in an isolated spot cut off by a spring flood. Even though Cowboy Roy knows the
cemetery well, the grave is still a tough one to find due to thick brush.
“Ah, here it is,” he says, pointing at the broken headstone. “Elijah Homer Lay.
The last horse thief hung in the county.”
According to local lore, Elijah was strung up in 1906 by a ``justice posse’’ (or
``truth squad,” depending on who is telling the tale) whose members had fortified their
resolve with spirited drink. Over his grave towers the skeletal form of a dead tree, the
same one from which Mr. Lay is said to have swung.
“They left the body there, turning in the breeze for three days and three nights,”
Roy explains. “Then my great grandfather cut him down and buried him. He also bought
the tombstone, and he had it engraved. Gone But Not Forgotten. That was a common
epitaph for horse thieves.”
I kneel down to examine the inscription. But the headstone is blank. No
inscription.
The constable comes running, sweat pouring from under his hat. He looks at the
marker and shakes his head.
“They’re all this way,” he says “Not a word on any of them.”
“Nothing inside them, either,” The Stranger adds. “It’s a key part of the next 10-
minute plot arc. You’ll need to see this, for later.”
#
A child’s grave, the small patch of recently turned earth marked with a simple,
white cross. Sitting on the mound of sandy, reddish soil is a teddy bear. And next to it, a
dead, leafless bush covered in colorful bows and ribbons – a family story I recall from
childhood.
“We do not despair for the dead ones,” The Stranger says, “but for our own
isolation. It terminates us. Our fear is not before death, however, but before life. Difficult,
painful, splendid, adhering tightly, squeezing life out of ourselves. The transformation
leaves us helplessly adrift on a sea of death, plugged into the oxygen containers and I.V.s,
prepared for a satin-drawn coffin. We are a template for the human condition, arms
folded like bat wings and lips stitched together in a silent scream.”
Father Bypass stands over the grave, an odd machine in hand. I recognize it from
the black case he’d opened by the road. He peers into the black rubber eye cup, now 
- 100
attached to the cylindrical canister with the rough crackled barrel. The mauve-tinted lens
is screwed into the other end, the cold, nickel setting white with frost.
“Bose-Einstein Condensate Scanner,” Father Bypass explains. “New process.”
“Same technology as the gaseous and liquid movies,” The Stranger adds. “It
records tales from the collective unconscious. Or, if you prefer, myths.”
Static crackles out of a little speaker set into the side of the canister. Father
Bypass slowly turns a small knob near the eyepiece, and a voice comes into being.
“This is the wild dream, up from the grave which we fill so prematurely. We are
waking up from the big bliss trip, the up-sucked inclinations, absorbed passion and
purpose. The suicidal intention does not speak of a desire to die. Rather, to disassociate
with yourself. Separated from the fragile ego, the heat of death is formed at a too-young
age, a defense unit against further betrayal. Tormented with illusions and self imposed
limitation, our magical birthright is revealed.”
Father Bypass hands me the scanner.
“Want to take a look?”
I put the rubber cup to my eye, and a sepia-toned image comes into focus: It is
Clark Caring, standing in a Texas backyard under a gray winter sky. All is dead, no green
anywhere save for a few clumps of rye overlooked by the milk cow kept in the barn
behind the house, a typical winter day in Waco, Texas, circa 1953. But there is some nonseasonal color. Bright ribbons tied all over a leafless tree, upside down in the back plate
of Jewell Poe’s camera.
Clark Caring knows all about his grandfather's ability to turn the world upside
down. When he was 4, he remembers climbing the stairs to Poe Studio in downtown
Waco -- the part that wasn't consumed by the tornado of May 1953 -- and a simple
wooden box draped in dark velvet. He took Clark’s picture, and afterwards he led the boy
to the back of that Speedgraphic, let him look through the lens. The studio was upside
down. Clark thought it was hilarious. How could his grandfather do such an impossible
thing, overriding the laws of the universe? This was magic.
Having seen “Let Me Love You” about a hundred times, it doesn’t require much
imagination for me to see that ribbon-bedecked tree -- that cherished Poe family heirloom
-- through the upside down world of the photographer, a magician who captures a little
piece of the world in his box and saves it on a piece of clay-coated paper.
Did he adequately capture the colors of that contrived scene? I don't know. What I
do know is that he tried and, apparently, was close enough to success that he was afraid
someone might steal the magic from him. So he sent himself a letter via registered mail,
documenting in the vaguest of terms his discovery: A major new development in color
photography, utilizing double reversal film exposed through a lens or prism.
According to Clark, his grandfather never made any money off the invention. The
process was never put into production. No documents survived him, no evidence of his
creation. But I like to think that he succeeded at least on the level of metaphor.
He colored the Myth.
#
This is the interstellar journey of the extraterrestrial personality, pushing its way
up into sunlight. Lonesome prairie sod rustling up and down across the ancient burial
mound, a worn out blanket, ten thousand images flash before me and turn to gray, oxygen
depravation due to a severed hand at my throat. And the smell. Circa 19th century dining 
- 101
accommodations and clammy outerwear bearing the pointed stink of unhealthy metal, a
nonsensical heap reaching to the heavens … smolder gas of an equine lynching, bitter
and hard exclusive waste, blotching pallid layer of noon’s decomposing phobias, fillets
inspired by sluggish aloof passions of terrified petrol, an ashen blaze and distorted
screams … the flavor of metallic text grasped in mandibles returned from the deceased’s
ghost pangs of deletion, flicker rhizomes of conventional organizations declining similar
to deceased biographers in the dim lane of mauve chocolate twilight tainted with decayed
metallic stink of cesspit chatter …lost in the golden-haired coronas of the autobicker
lamps, shattered xenon tubes laid bare.
“Don’t be alarmed,” The Stranger says. “This is part of the movie making, too.
Picture a SF/Wild West concept based on the legend of a Martian spaceship crash in 1897
in Aurora, Texas.”
“I remember hearing about that story when I was in elementary school,” I remark.
“It was a big feature in the Dallas Times Herald. They had a photo of the grave stone,
which had a picture of a space ship.”
“That’s right. The legend is even alluded to on the historical marker at the Aurora
Cemetery, where the Martian is supposedly buried. But in this story, the hook is that
Aurora wasn’t the only town around here where a space alien crashed in 1897. Strangers
Rest had one, too, complete with a dead extraterrestrial that is buried in an unmarked
grave in the Oddfellows Cemetery.”
Cowboy Roy is not impressed. “I’ve never heard that tall tale, and that’s saying
something because I’m the town’s main tall tale teller.”
“The reason you don’t know about this is because the Aurora crash gets all the
attention,” The Stranger explains. “You see, the story was reported in the Dallas and Fort
Worth papers, which live on in the microfilm stacks of the public libraries. But word of
the Strangers Rest crash never made it beyond the town limits. So it just didn’t get the
publicity of the Aurora incident. You like?”
“Pretty,” I say.
“The movie is set in modern Strangers Rest, where the dead space alien comes
back to life. During a re-blessing of the cemetery’s Catholic graves, townsfolk observe a
strange creature burrowing up out of the ground. It is the size of a man, but an insect.
Townsfolk watch the creature crawl up an old cedar tree to shed it exoskeleton, revealing
a pair of iridescent wings. In other words, a gigantic cicada.”
Indeed, the alien has already split open along its back, and a set of deflated wings
plops out of the slit.
“That’s one ugly looking space alien,” Roy says.
“We hired one of the best special effects men in the business,” the cameraman
adds. “Came all the way from the Zeta Reticuli system.”
“At least that’s our story,” The Stranger adds. “This alien film is but one of many
I have directed. I am today as the sculptor Marini was in the years following the second
earthly conflict. But instead of boys on horses, my art is about extraterrestrial insects. So
if someday you look back and view my alien films of the previous 12 years
chronologically, you will realize that the townsfolk’s panic progressively advances, but
they are immobilized with amnesiac fear and resemble statues instead of living creatures,
who would most naturally draw back or head for the hills. That is because I submit that
we are nearing the conclusion of time. In every film, I attempt to convey a sense of 
- 102
intensifying terror and defeat. In this manner, I strive to express the final step of a
terminal legend, the legend of the conquering champion, of the rationalist’s Creature of
Merit.”
“Pretty,” I say.
“Thanks. Anyway, the black ops division of Ozona has already caught wind of the
resurrected alien and is even now attempting to capture it as part of its broader conspiracy
to take control of the United Nations and create the world’s first privately owned and
operated deity. In fact, you’ll notice the man sitting on the trunk of the governmentlooking sedan parked outside the cemetery gate.”
We all look to the road, and sure enough a newcomer has arrived.
“I wrote him into the script as a ufologist on the Ozona payroll, a humorous
takeoff on the real, waking world research group known as MUFON,” The Stranger
continues. “I even have a copy of his initial report, which I have based on an actual
MUFON report from a site survey in nearby Aurora.”
#
PRELIMINARY SITE SURVEY OF STRANGERS REST
A year after our site survey of Aurora, Texas, NAGUO has returned to the El
Camino Extraterrestre (aka Texas 114) to investigate the little township of Strangers
Rest. We are here to report that the outcome of our investigation is rather “strange.”
As we meander through the town, we find a mix of new high-dollar home
subdivisions and old metal trailers, freely roaming dogs and a tired looking, mostly
empty downtown anchored by the remains of a crumbling rock saloon. An old man in an
antique Caddy with longhorns mounted on the hood (nice disguise for a “perp” on
guerrilla drive-in movie theater detail.) tells us this sandstone structure is the only
building here that still dates from the cowboy and cattle drive times. He then directs us to
the town’s “boot hill” cemetery, where it is believed by some that an intelligent insect
from outer space was interred a century past. A brief dashboard survey reveals an
extremely tidy, superbly maintained site, but no alien grave. We were told there have
been more than a few out-of-the-ordinary bits of metallic items unearthed in the vicinity,
but that was years ago. They were seized and impounded by the armed forces and never
seen or heard of again.
But perhaps the most credible evidence we have become aware of while
investigating Strangers Rest are the numerous visual rumors of a former armed forces
presence. The town even contains the ruins of a miniature Second Earthly Conflict-era
military type airfield, with roads arranged in a characteristic air base style. We are told
that indications of the sod runway and concrete apron can still be found on the site of the
old Hi-way 114 Drive-In Theatre. (Note: This 1950s era outdoor cinema has been out of
business for many years, but we can still see the old screen and speaker poles poking
through the underbrush.)
For what reason would the armed forces of the ‘40s desire to operate such an
installation in Strangers Rest? Inspired by the nearness of the city of Fort Worth, we
make the mental connection that the wreckage from the Roswell collision cover-up was
airlifted straight to Carswell AFB. Imagine it – those famous dead aliens and their craft
were studied (and hidden) just a few miles south of here. Chance? Quirk of fate? Fluke?
Not to our way of thinking. We submit that the U.S. government has operated an
extraterrestrial research facility here since 1897, when it began to study the remains from 
- 103
both the Strangers Rest and Aurora crashes. That operation clearly continued for decades,
right into the second earthly conflict. Perhaps the operation even continues today, hidden
away in the antechamber of some underground bunker connected via high-speed
pneumatic tunnels to Carswell, which is now called the Joint Reserve Base – a name
perhaps reflective of the armed forces “joint” effort to reverse engineer an alien
spaceship? What better place to cover up such a facility than a seemingly obsolete and
abandoned military facility/drive-in movie theater. We, the dedicated researchers of
NAGUO, are onto this evil cabal. We shall continue to search for answers. We are now
on the El Camino Extraterrestre.
#
“That ain’t no secret Martian research facility,” Cowboy Roy says. “He’s talking
about the old radar base.”
And in fact Cowboy Roy is correct. Later, I will research the site and discover
that it is listed in the National Archives as the Strangers Rest Marine Corps Outlying
Landing Field. It seems that in the early stages of the second earthly conflict the Marine
Corps had an amphibious glider program at nearby Eagle Mountain Lake, and they built a
satellite airfield in Strangers Rest. The 1,200-acre facility had a sod runway, control
tower, a glider hanger, mess hall and enough barracks to house 750 Marines. By the time
it was ready for use, though, the Marines had cancelled the strange program. Later, they
installed a radar station for night fighter training flights out of the Eagle Mountain base,
but that didn’t last long, either. Strangers Rest Field was shut down for good at the end of
the war.
If you go to the site today, the runway and old buildings are long gone but the
roads are still in place. The street signs say things like Tower Drive and Run Way Lane. I
talked to one man who’s built a 5,000-square-foot North Dallas Special on the hill where
the control tower used to be. He said while putting in a swimming pool they found some
practice bombs filled with bone-white chalk. But no underground bunkers.
#
After the giant cicada’s wings dry, it flies off into the billowy clouds of summer
and the crowd disperses. Sam and I are the last to leave.
“You keeping the bad guys out of town?” I ask.
“As a matter of fact, I helped chase down that bank robber last week.”
I’d heard nothing about a bank robbery. I asked which bank, and the constable
named one in Rhome.
“That’s the most robbed bank in the state,” he says.
“That’s pretty exciting. You catch him yourself?”
“Naw, but I had him on the run. He started out on 156, but then he just
disappeared. The sheriff’s department was setting up roadblocks all over the place. I
responded on the radio and they sent me way out on Seven Hills Road. He was coming
my way right before they stopped him. So it just tells you that constables do a lot more
than just serve papers. We’re real lawmen.”
“Sounds pretty exciting all right,” I repeat.
“You going to write about the giant insect?” he asks.
“I don’t know. My editors don’t seem to like that kind of story.”
“That’s OK. There may soon be an even better story for you.”
“How so?”
- 104
“Are we off the record?”
I hate off the record. Why agree to hear a story you can’t write? “Only if we have
to be,” I say.
“We do.”
I agree.
“I’ve got an informant who says there’s going to be another sacrifice.”
“You know it for real? I mean, you know for a fact that the first one was an actual
satanic sacrifice?”
“Yes sir. Got the forensic report from the sheriff’s department yesterday. And an
informant tells me another ceremony is in the works.”
“When?”
“I don’t know exactly, but it’ll be sometime in the next week or so.”
“So, the sheriff’s department will be staking it out?”
“Oh, no,” the constable says, smiling. “No, they don’t know about it. The
informant is mine alone. That’s why it’s off the record.”
“So you’re thinking your informant will give you a heads up?”
“And I’ll lie in wait and when they show up and begin their ceremony, I’ll jump
out and grab them.”
“That’ll make some headlines. Couldn’t hurt come election time, either.”
“Yeah, I thought of that, too. So you want the story?”
“An exclusive?”
“You’d wait out there with me and see the whole thing.”
But I have another thought. “I wonder. You think this is the real thing? I mean,
maybe it’s just a bunch of kids playing like their devil worshippers.”
“Maybe they listened to too much Ozzy Osborne, is that it?”
“Maybe.”
“This new generation! They stay plugged in for days at a time, looking for
onbeam primal goddesses and getting stoned on spore.”
“OK, but that doesn’t make them devil worshippers.”
“Listen, no law enforcement official in Texas has ever made an arrest during a
black mass, or whatever they call their infernal rites. You want to write that one or should
I call the Sunrise Bulletin?”
“Don’t even joke about that.”
“I’m not joking.”
“I want that story.”
“You got it. All I ask is that you spell my name right.”
“Of course.”
The constable pushes a notepad and pen on me. “Write down the numbers where
I’ll be able to reach you,” he says. “A beeper would be best. When the word comes, there
may not be much advance notice.”
Satan worshippers in Strangers Rest. I am unconvinced. Despite the constable’s
confidence in his informant, I assume the so-called black mass will yet turn out to be a
bunch of teenagers pumped up on illicitly acquired beer and the modern equivalent of
Black Sabbath’s “Paranoid” album. Still, I will put Jack’s cell phone number on the
notepad, just in case the call comes when we’re at Plato’s Palace.
#
- 105
#
Lost in teenage memories of Duncanville High School: A hot summer night
peeling away sweaty clothes in the back of a 1970 Cutlass convertible, ecstasy and guilt
merge in a communion of strained membranes, salty flesh and bodily fluids. I close my
eyes and see the innocent lips and virginal breasts, the spinning constellations of stale
DNA and shimmering saliva and then -- And then! – the shuddering rush of elation and
moral defeat, of bliss and angst. A draining sensation of distinctive shame, gliding snaillike past tables of milky eyes and clipped fins, cold skinless creatures lined up soldier
straight, body bagged and headed for the pitchfork and the flames.
“Wish I still had my old Cutlass,” I lament. “I feel a need for a Gonzo road trip.”
“Yes, we need some Hunter S. Thompson Fear and Loathing action,” Jack says.
“And I know just the machine.”
“Yeah, my old Cutlass. The black vinyl, V-8 powered time machine. I should
never have sold it.”
“No, it lives, man, it lives. Saw it last week at this place over on Mockingbird,
near Love Field, all they sell are muscle cars. They’ve got a couple of 442s, but they also
took a trade on a plain Cutlass, silver with black interior, everything original.”
“Are you kidding me? My old car?”
“It’s identical. And the guy said if I put down a $500 deposit, I can borrow it for a
weekend.”
“Get it, man, get it.”
A Fear and Loathing road trip. How long had it been? Five years? No wait –
longer than that. It was the summer after we graduated from college, a high speed run
south to the coast, to Corpus Christi.
We arrived at dawn on Malachite Beach, the final stop on North Padre Island
before the untamed vines and tangled seaweed and undiscovered wreckages of Spanish
galleons, pieces of eight strewn across the dunes and rattlesnakes and unexploded
artillery shells and sea monsters. We played the Rolling Stones “Some Girls” album
nonstop, a boys of summer soundtrack for our perfect, not-yet damaged lives. So
respectable. And of course there was the tequila and beer, a whole ice chest full. We were
sure the alcohol and the good times would last forever.
“I’ll pick up the Acapulco shirts and Saigon mirror shades,” I volunteer.
“Make mine those wraparound Spanish ones, like the ones The Stranger wears.”
“Speaking of him, we’ll need chocolate mysticism for three. Or least some
spore.”
“I’ll steal some from under Corvette’s sofa.”
“And I’ll get the Mescal.”
“The kind with the worm.”
#
Checking out my old desk.
It’s been months since I was farmed out to the Northeast Bureau, but it appears
(maybe) someone is still anticipating my eventual return to the downtown operation and
Business News. My desk is just as I left it.
The editorial assistant has been forwarding (or tossing) most of my mail, but I
also see she has honored my parting wish that the business staff maintain my collection
of The George Report, a monthly listing of Tarrant County’s commercial real estate 
- 106
transactions. I have every issue for the past five years. (Yes, I am an obsessive
compulsive, at least when it comes to the real estate beat.) And I find a copy of my last
annual performance appraisal, given to me six months late last fall.
A perfectly acceptable review, and yet my eyes automatically fall on the words I
found (and still find) most offensive: “Mark does an excellent job of researching the
county deed records and finding newsworthy transactions. And yet, through his heavy
reliance on the public record we see that he is not discovering major transactions until
after they occur. We challenge him to further develop personal sources in the local real
estate industry so he can report on major transactions before they occur.”
How was I ever going to get local real estate agents to tell me about deals before
they closed them, before they were deals? Nobody’s going to take a risk on losing a
commission, not even to help out a nice guy like me. I was doomed. But when I shared
this concern with one of the older reporters, he just laughed and went straight to the heart
of the problem: “Quit going to the courthouse. You’re working too hard and just making
yourself look bad. Next time one of your real estate buddies tells you about a deal, write a
story. When they ask you where you got it from, you can honestly tell them you got it
from one of those personal sources you developed as requested in your last review. They
might even give you a raise.” He was right. I never went to the courthouse again, and my
editors never even noticed. It was as if my career was over. I felt as if I had followed the
same career arc as Clark Caring.
#
Being a truth doctor is a lot like being Ardnassac.
Yes, I and others of my profession were much like the prophetess of your ancient,
pre-science mythology, the superior being whom no one ever supposed true and yet
whose divinations were forever confirmed by reality.
Like pre-science prophecy, truth doctoring is a gift. It is the gift of knowing the
necessary steps to coolly and without passion avert – or at least diminish the impact of –
a media crisis. This is indeed a great gift; however, in my case it came with a great curse
– the curse of being powerless to persuade senior executives of the need to accept those
necessary steps rather than pursue the folly of their own hot, passion-filled (and therefore
doomed) strategies:
“If they run the story, tell them we’ll sue!”
“Tell them we’ll only grant an interview if they agree to let us review and
approve the story before publication – or we’ll sue!”
“Tell them ‘no comment!’ And we’ll sue!”
For those of you who are not up on your ancient, pre-science mythology,
Ardnassac died at the claws of Artsenmetylc, who slew the prophetess over the broken
exoskeleton of her legal mate. Artsenmetylc actually had nothing against the prophetess.
She had committed herself to the murder of her legal mate Nonmemega, just arrived
home from his triumphant victory in the Froth Hills War, for killing their own larva years
before in exchange “for a charm against the Frothian winds,” as phrased by mythologist
Hilde Notildemah. So you see, Artsenmetylc had nothing against the prophetess
Ardnassac. She just got in the way.
I died at the hands of Edward Milton.
Back in the day, Edward served as the director of life extension technology at
Valuosity Life Planning Inc. We knew him for his extensive technical prowess. He was 
- 107
even a life extension professor at the Management Information Foundation (as seen on
TV.). Unfortunately, Edward had no knowledge of or feel for how to actually run a
business. Even so, it didn’t stop him from doing whatever it took to become company
president. So you see, Edward Milton had nothing against me. I just got in the way.
#
The beginning of the end came during our annual sales conference in Hawaii. The
New York Agenda had just gone live with the first in what would be a series of stories
about Valuosity – stories about how we were using EternaLife™ to rip off our customers,
the nation’s sacrament infliction officers. These stories would soon lead to a
congressional hearing, a regulatory investigation and a $70 million fine. It marked the
end of the line for Valuosity, the end of selling EternaLife™ (our most lucrative product)
and the end of our affinity marketing program to sacrament enforcement officers (our
most lucrative market). But I’m getting ahead of myself.
After the big awards “luau” in the hotel ballroom, the CEO, president and senior
executives gathered in a sixth-floor storage closet that had been remade into our media
war room. They peeled off their tuxedo jackets and bow ties and brightly colored plastic
leis. They stood around in open necked shirts and cummerbunds, looking serious and
decisive. Think JFK and “Missiles of October.”
#
“We’ve got to act fast,” says Roman Timms, our chairman and CEO. “Who do
we know in Washington?”
A few names are kicked around. Someone mentions our lobbyist, though no one
really knows if he has any contacts at the paper.
“So what you really want is somebody who has pull inside the Agenda, right?”
asks Burt Durran, one of our senior VPs and a former vice chief of staff with the
Sacrament Infliction Bureau.
Roman nods. “OK, we probably don’t need anybody in Washington for that. I just
want somebody who can step on that Motherfucker and make this story go away. Clark,
what if you call him and say we’re going to sue if he doesn’t print a retraction?”
Poor stupid bastard. I nod slowly, pretending to think.
“Yeah, that really doesn’t work, especially with Motherfuckers,” I reply. My little
joke gets an unfairly small chuckle from the group.
“Reporters kind of like it when you threaten to sue,” I continue. “They think it
must mean they’re onto something big.”
As I speak I notice our company president, Ward Collins, is growing red in the
face. When I say the words “kind of like it” his head begins to inflate like a crimson
balloon.
““Doesn’t he understand he’s hurting people with a story like this?” he demands.
“We help deserving American families – our front line arsenal in the War on Sacrament
Abuse – people of limited means achieve their life extension goals. We do it ---”
Oh yeah, that’s what we need right now, Ward. That’ll work for sure.
“Nobody else is doing what we do,” he continues, “helping the middle class
consumer achieve eternal life. But we can’t do it for free. That’s why we use
EternaLife™. The paid-up commission allows us to provide full service life extension
planning for those who otherwise can’t afford it. Why can’t the Agenda write that story?”
Poor stupid bastard.
- 108
“Reporters don’t really think that way” I reply.
“That’s my experience, too,” Burt agrees. “I saw it time and again at the SIB.
Once a reporter has made up his or her mind, you can’t change it.”
“Exactly. I suggest we tell the New York Agenda that we’re sorry. We’ve seen the
error of our ways and we’re going to change the way we do business.”
“Change, why should we change?” Ward demands. “They’re the ones in the
wrong, not us.”
“Of course, but you can’t say that to a reporter. You can’t talk to them the way
you would a prospective client. You can’t sell them.”
I know “you can’t sell them” is a mistake as soon as the words pass my lips.
“You CAN fucking sell them!” Ward says. “You just don’t know how to do it!
You’re not a salesman. You need to get Roman or myself to tell you how. Between us
we’ve sold the EternaLife™ program to thousands of prospects. We’ve conserved
hundreds of previous sales with existing clients who wanted to back out. We’ve even sold
it to regulators. Remember the Bond Wars, Roman?”
Roman nods, smiling at the memory of this long-distant victory from earlier,
happier days. “We really need to get that man in here again,” he says. “We can make
our points one more time, really hitting hard on the service we provide and how his story
is going to hurt the very people he wants to help. Perhaps we can activate our client base
with a letter writing campaign.”
“That’s right,” Ward agrees. “We’ve got a half million client families. We’ll get
them to write their congressmen in Washington. They’ll set the record straight. We’ve got
hundreds of thousands of clients who will say how we helped them achieve eternal life.
We did nothing wrong! I say we tell those Agenda people we want a retraction right now
or we’ll sue!”
#
The hot, passion-filled approach did not work, of course. Our attorneys would not
allow us to activate our client base. We turned over responsibility for all further
communications with the Agenda to a high-priced media crisis expert in D.C., someone
who was calm at all times and did not refer to reporters as Motherfuckers. In the end –
no retraction, no lawsuit. We continued to insist we did nothing wrong, right up to the
Day of Infamy:
#
LEC Orders $70m Payout
The U.S. Life Extension Commission (LEC) has announced that Dallas-based
Valuosity Life Planning Inc. will pay $70 million to settle allegations of unfair market
practices.
It is alleged that the company unfairly sold life extension policies as immortality
plans targeted at sacrament infliction personnel, promising the policy holders eternal life
in exchange for their monthly investments with huge upfront fees.
It is estimated that around 75,000 government officers purchased the policies,
which the LEC alleges in most cases generated very few additional years of life.
Although failing to admit any wrongdoing, Valuosity has agreed to the payout in
order to move on and focus on providing for its customers.
"This settlement is in the best interests of our clients, employees and advisors, and
will allow us to focus on moving forward as we continue to provide service to our 
- 109
policyholders," the company's CEO and chairman Roman Timms said in an official
statement.
The LEC said that sacrament infliction personnel already had access to various
government-sponsored life extension products, including variable gene re-sequencers
and cryonic therapy, meaning that there was no need for further life extension policies
from the private sector.
#
Ah my beloved creations, they should have listened to their truth doctor. We could
have just said “we’re sorry and we’ll stop being bad,” and it would have all been over
months before. Instead, we fought back, and we were compelled to stop selling
EternaLife™ -- and the rest of our products – to the deserving, front-line agents in the
War on Sacrament Abuse.
You may find this odd, but I counted it as another victory, albeit in a demented
sort of way. Sure, a $70 million fine is bad news. Very hard to spin. But the good news --
I was right. And that’s what is really important. Any truth doctor would have been proud.
Then a few months later, Edward Milton received a promotion to the senior
executive ranks. During the Agenda crisis, he served as just another departmental
director. A few months after we paid our fine, Roman put him in charge of about half the
company, including the department of truth doctoring. He promptly hired a new truth
doctor, a professor of media relations at the Management Information Foundation (as
seen on TV).
And that’s when I became a lowly technical writer who had to park my Lexus
LS400 in the blazing Texas sun with all the other insignificant employees who did not
rate a space in the executive parking garage. Not that it matters.
Edward Milton has gone to live with Jesus now.
#
I regarded my undeserved demotion as an unpleasant occurrence, to say the least.
As a superior being, I am of course gifted with extremely developed senses and emotions
– far more developed than those of my fellow homo sapiens who must park in the blazing
Texas sun instead of the executive parking garage. I am quite empathetic, suffering the
pains of the world. This insight into the feelings of the insignificant ones is sometimes all
that allows me to endure their weaknesses and failures. Even so, my special gift is also a
nightmare. I am very sensitive to criticism and defeat.
Oh, I didn’t show any outward signs of my injury. I’m far too superior a being for
that. Still, the insignificant ones could see my pain. In the past they greeted me with great
fanfare and gazed upon me with envy. They coveted my corner office and parking space
in the executive parking garage. Now, instead of admiring my unlimited success, power
and brilliance, they looked upon me as a wounded creature.
“Don’t worry, they never fire anyone here,” one of the insignificant ones advised.
Ah, gloomy times. I tell you, my beloved creations, it is lonely at the top. It is
especially lonely at the top when you have fallen to the bottom. I do not expect you to
understand this loneliness anymore than the insignificant employees of Valuosity Life
Planning Inc. understood it. As a superior being, my situation could only be grasped by
another superior being, another equally special or high-status person. Unfortunately, I
could find no such person in my orbit. I was condemned by circumstance to suffer alone.
- 110
My pursuit of high achievement and top performance had been disrupted by
undeserved defeat. My ambition and confidence took a nosedive. Sustained feelings of
shame and humiliation engulfed me. I soon fell into a dark depression, fed by these
insignificant suggestions that I should be glad to “enjoy life.”
Lest you find me too grandiose -- Yes, I have read the critical words of your
heretics and artists. You thought I didn’t know. As I was saying, lest you find me too
grandiose please understand that I don’t blame the insignificant ones. In fact, I was
touched by their concern for my welfare.
One day after lunch, I returned to find a half dozen of my fellow technical writers
in the LET department laughing around the computer monitor in the adjoining cube,
work station of Sam Pack. He leapt to his feet and offered me his chair.
“Ah Clark, just in time,” he said. “It’s time for your personal apocalypse.”
The subject of my co-workers amusement: an onbeam message board dedicated to
nocturnal creations about the conclusion of time.
“Actually, I’ve seen this one before,” I replied. “These people are nuts.”
“You’re talking about the message board,” Sam said. “This is PAAGO, a new
app.”
“What?”
“Personal Apocalypse Algorithm. It generates a description of how the world
would end based on your own personality. Go ahead and plug in. It just takes a minute.”
I abhor the so-called personality evaluation Web sites, particularly when others
will see the results at the same time I do – before I can do any truth doctoring. I like to
make people laugh; however, I hate to be laughed at.
Nevertheless, I was already seated at the computer. Committed. I peeled off the
backing of a fresh transdermal patch and slapped it on my forehead, then clipped the
transceiver lead to my left earlobe.
The implant canvass immediately jumped to full 3-D, a landscape of exploding
rocks and molten lava with assorted mushroom clouds erupting along the horizon and
winged demons flying overhead. The images froze and the screen flickered a moment,
then filled with text.
The onlookers erupted in laughter.
“Look, Clark’s a ‘High Level Alien’.”
#
Congratulations! You are a High Level Alien.
It is by your high level of alien-“ness” that you move well through life at the end
of life of Planet Earth. You are creating a giant hole to burn out, to fade. Struck from the
South Pole, planets will fly out in a manner that has been masterminded by the Wise
Ones (i.e., The Global Conspiracy). Even in an emotional coma you live on in the secret
underground bases, the world falling into a crazy idea generated by the secret
government. Or even not an idea but a result of the actions of a few crazy frankensteinian
scientists. It’s recorded in the Guinness Book. They will come finish it and then you can
finish it, too. Maybe not in my life. Hmm. Let us think it through. Basically, you move
away from most of them, the lesser aliens who have been in on the creation of life that is
in fact the end of life. I think the Cicadians said that. There is also the mind control, of
course. It’s another thing that will mess up every thing around you. You shall be making
us believe that the sun’s gravitational pull is ours to control. Well, that particular branch 
- 111
of the 'celestial management' and the fallen angelic presence is role modeled on what I
always say. The trigger? It’s a better cobalt-salted nuclear device, and in turn we will be
believing that the end of the world and Jesus shall come again to save the good and
forgive even the wicked. So you need two more items, basically very important items to
achieve the biggest point of your life. I have them both. Whatever hits us will shoot the
right cap off the whole genetic research effort of records and see their original order (or
rather the re-creation or re-arrangement scientists here and there have been noting of
the coming here on the planet). You are just a visitor here, sub-contracting for that alien
race. Then the earth will just consume itself . Our planet of convenient guinea pigs...
Everyone knows races that have visited Earth, which is a moving target. And you fly in to
one agenda, then another. All of us are going to explode. In fact, we are almost already
there. Probably 90 percent of the alien races are using what has already been expended
through time, and it should not be bad because coming here, it is my feeling that we can
only RE-STRUCTURE that which we go into with the general discussions. Now check the
cooking-lava-pot. Check on the onbeam message board of mankind. I’m telling you true,
it is going to happen on this very planet. It is you. My, how the world will end. You will
no longer be us in the world. You will no longer be made of biological matter at all.
Rather, you will be a star child, the 2001 Space Odyssey cosmic baby.
#
“Based on the laughter, I assume I’m the only one who came out as an
extraterrestrial.”
“Hey, don’t take it personally,” Sam advises. “I came out a seven-headed beast.”
“So it’s just random text generation?”
“Actually, it uses an algorithm combined with a cut-up engine to re-pattern your
own brain waves into a grammatically correct textual display.”
“Writing without thinking.”
“Pretty much.”
“We should use it to finish the descriptions for the business analyst project.”
Again my fellow technical writers erupt in laughter.
“Great idea. Yes, that’s so perfect.”
I’m not trying to be particularly funny. The business analyst project is a rather
mind-numbing bit of technical writing, summaries of each department’s strategic plan
responsibilities. These summaries are based on notes from each department’s assigned
analyst, technocrats who employ phrases such as “engineer best-of-breed niches” and
“reintermediate wireless functionalities” and – my personal favorite – “enable intuitive
infomediaries.” It’s really not writing at all.
Anyway, my piece of the project – 240 separate process/decision trees – has been
hanging over my head for weeks. Based on the laughter, I know I am not the only
“infomediary” who wishes this project already over.
“We should write our own algorithm, one that will write all the analysis for us.”
“That would be hilarious.”
#
After that, I’m in. My new cube mates fully embrace me as one of their own. They
even include me on the “CC” lines of their joke e-mails. I particularly enjoy the video
clip of the chimpanzee falling off the branch after sniffing the finger he’s just used to
scratch his anus.
- 112
Kudos for the monkey!
Stinking beasts as they may be in the wild or a zoo, chimpanzees can be anticfilled saviors in a time of depression.
Kudos for the monkey.
#
- 113
#
“Leach! What the hell are you doing here?”
Carl Teschanek – “Tesch.” My old boss.
Standing in the doorway he looks unchanged. Open collar, loosened tie, eyes
sunken into their usual dark rings, the result of the 60- to 80-hour weeks considered
standard for the paper’s mid-level editors. Unlike the hourly reporters, editors are on
salary and therefore can be inexpensively worked to cardiac arrest (one veteran had in
fact died at his desk a few years back).
“I’m here to find out what year it is, of course.”
Libby has called together all of the downtown and bureau reporters to announce
the successor to her “Year of the Child” project. For the past 12 months, no story about
kids has been left behind. Big Sunday features, multi-part series, first-person
commentaries – dozens of tales of predictable pathos, all stamped from the dough of
human suffering with Nathaniel West’s heart-shaped cookie cutter.
These big projects are considered an ideal technique for snaring journalism
awards and showcasing the paper’s good writers. (In case you were wondering, Libby
says we have three. I do not much care for Libby.)
“It’s supposed to be about race,” Tesch says. “At least that’s what everybody is
speculating. Come on, Leach, let’s keep up with the gossip.”
“Gossip is a little hard to come by out in the bureaus.”
“So how’s it going out there?”
“At least there’s no major-league bitching.”
“What? I’ve never heard anything like that around here. Everyone is happy and
satisfied.”
“Everyone?” I ask, nodding toward David Meade, a particularly disgruntled and
vocal reporter who is angrily typing away in the neighboring cubicle.
David has not looked up from his computer, but I can tell by the way he is
attacking the keyboard that he has been following our conversation.
“Oh yes, I’m very happy here,” he says. “Very happy and glad to have a job and
proud to be an American.”
“And you love your editors,” Tesch adds.
“Libby is a brilliant editor. And I ought to know. She just worked over – I mean
on – one of my stories only last week. Friday night, to be exact.”
Libby is infamous for her “Friday night massacres,” eleventh-hour
deconstructions of big stories scheduled for the following Sunday papers. At about 7 p.m.
on Friday, David got the call at home from Tesch: “You better get back here quick.
Libby’s just read your Sunday piece, and she’s got a lot of questions.” David claimed the
story was so marked up that Libby’s notes and questions were actually longer than his
text. And just in case anyone doubted him, David copied the edited file to everyone in
Business News, including a CC to me. Since David is a nationally known technology
reporter, I found it somewhat comforting to see that his vivisected copy looked a lot like
my own after a Libby edit.
“Did you know I didn’t fill in the final hole in that story until after midnight?”
David remarks. “We actually missed the Bulldog.”
I did know. Everyone knew. He told the story often.
- 114
“I only live that one day I might write something worthy of her compliments,” he
adds. “Her compliments are so liberally dished out.”
#
I am walking the empty hallway outside Business News, waiting for the staff
meeting. Stacks of shrink-wrapped travel guides sit on a broken wooden pallet in front of
the fire escape doors. A smear of greasy black cuts a dirty path along a yellowed cinder
block wall. A rather uninspiring view, to be sure. And yet, for some reason this particular
hallway always make me think of a favorite scene from “Let Me Love You.”
#
After my teleconference with Roman, I decide to grab a soft drink from the
executive break room. You can’t do any proper truth doctoring without a cool,
carbonated beverage.
The executive break room is at the end of a long hallway I like to call the
Corridor of Admiration. It is lined with 8-by-10s of all 753 of Valuosity’s life extension
advisors. These are our salespeople, mostly retired or separated SIB officers who now
market EternaLife™ and similar products to their former government colleagues. I’ve
looked at their photos a thousand times. However, this day my gaze is inexplicably drawn
to one picture in particular. He jumps out because he is African American, and we don’t
have many of them in our sales force. I don’t know this advisor, so perhaps he is a new
hire. His face – light skinned with stereotypical Anglo structure – is familiar. From where
would I know him?
I walk on to the break room, so lost in my thoughts as I open the door I almost
bump into someone who is standing just inside the doorway. I look up to find my way
blocked by a man wearing the old-fashioned uniform of a movie theater usher.
“You must buy your ticket at the window,” he says.
“What?” I ask. Then I look into his face. He is the man whose photo I had just
seen in the Corridor of Admiration. Now I know why he looked familiar to me. He looks
like a younger version of me, but with a shadow across his face.
“You must stand behind the stripe,” he tells me, pointing to a line on the floor.
So I take several exaggerated steps back, stopping at a sort of half wall I had not
realized was there.
“Is this good?” I ask, feeling a surge of disdain rise within me. “You just tell me
where you want me to stand.”
The usher ignores my sarcasm.
“Yes, that is sufficient,” he says.
I am going to ask him why he is here and who he is to challenge me, but then I am
distracted by the sounds of a muffler-less internal combustion engine. Trouble at
Valuosity? Good thing this company has a truth doctor on the payroll.
I step back into the Corridor of Admiration, but now I notice part of it appears to
be the lobby of a movie theater, the advisor photos replaced by backlit panels depicting a
streetscape I recognize as New York City. I run to the end of the corridor, where I
immediately spot the source of the disturbance. Four floors down, in the bottom of
Valuosity’s lobby atrium are two men on motorcycles. How did they get inside the
building?
Pandemonium. People are screaming, running in all directions to escape. As I
watch the two cyclists dismount and chase a fleeing man, running him to the ground. 
- 115
They hold him down, and one of them produces a sharp object (a pen or maybe a house
key).
“Let me go, I won’t tell anyone!” he pleads as they systematically puncture his
face. I touch my own face in an empathetic reflex, and I am surprised to find I am
bleeding. I look around and catch my reflection in a window. My face is full of holes, like
tiny red tattoos.
#
As a superior being, I of course instantly realize I already read of these events in
“The Voice of God,” the anonymous paperback left at my house the previous day. At this
point in the story I have not yet met the Prophet, so I conclude that someone is using the
book as a guide for terrorist acts. Since the book came to me in a Valuosity envelope, I
immediately deduce the terrorist is a company employee. Good thing this company has a
truth doctor on the payroll.
But my terrorist theory doesn’t hold together for long. A quick phone call to
Preacher with a Gun reveals all is normal after all.
“It was just a promotional gimmick for the United Way campaign,” he says.
“This year’s theme is ‘United at the Movies.’ Today’s featured presentation is ‘Easy
Riders.’”
“I was confronted outside the executive break room by a man dressed like a
movie theater usher,” I say.
“Right, that’s part of the movie theme, too. The break room and the hallway are
being turned into a movie lobby. Didn’t you see the decorations?”
Just a promotional gimmick. Still, the explanation doesn’t account for all I saw. A
quick look in the men’s room mirror reveals my face is bleeding from several puncturelike wounds. I clean myself up as best I can, then return to my office.
#
“Oh my god, what happened?” asks Courtney, my 22-year-old administrative
assistant with the big boobs and tight ass. She sits on the edge of my desk and takes my
face tenderly in her hands, daubing at my wounds with a tissue. As she inspects my
forehead, I am provided with an unobstructed view down the front of her blouse at the
impressive anatomical feature that inspired a secret nickname known only to me (and
shared with some buddies and a few strangers over drinks at the 19th hole): The Dairy
Queen.
“I had an accident in the break room.”
“It looks like you smashed your face into a bed of nails. Doesn’t it hurt?”
I look at her and nod solemnly.
“Yes, yes it does. In fact, I thought I might go home and lay down for the rest of
the morning, then come back this afternoon. Tonight we could get caught up. Do some
paperwork or something.”
“Or something?”
“I’ve got an enormous package I need you to unwrap.”
The Dairy Queen slides her big boobs and tight ass off the desk and turns away
from me, towards the corner window.
“I’m busy tonight,” she says.
“Doing what?”
“I’m going out.”
- 116
“You? Going out? Like on a date?”
“Yes, I am going on a date. That’s what single women do.”
“Who is it? Tell me his name.”
“Maybe you should get your wife to unwrap your package.”
“You mean my ex-wife.”
“Whatever.”
“No way, it’s too enormous for her. What’s the guy’s name?”
“I’m not telling you. And I’m not staying late tonight.”
“But I have administrative needs.”
“Then maybe you should unwrap your own package.”
“Oh, Courtney. Harsh.”
“Look, it’s just not cute anymore.”
“What?”
“This – all of it. You.”
“Me? Come on, Courtney, we’re a team.”
“Not anymore. We’re through.”
“Through?”
“I don’t want this anymore.”
“You mean you want to quit? Are you crazy? There’s no other openings in the
company. In this current economy I don’t think you want –“
This is a not a smart move on my part. For the Dairy Queen instantly turns on me,
hurling herself palms first onto my desk in a spitting rage.
“So now it’s come to that?” she asks. “You’re threatening my job?”
“Let’s take it easy. These walls are not soundproof you know.”
“This is great, just great.”
“What I meant to say --”
“I knew I shouldn’t have got involved with a co-worker, let alone my boss. This is
great, just great.”
“No, it’s not like that. I care about you.”
She looks at me with a blank stare. She’s thinking about it. I might still have a
chance.
“I really do care,” I add. “I probably should have started off with that. Always
lead with your strongest material.”
“Always with the jokes.”
“No, it’s not a joke. I’m not like that. Not about you anyway. I really do –“
“You’re exactly like that. We’re through. I’d been trying to figure out how to tell
you. But now you’ve made it easy. We’re through. Effective immediately.”
“Come on, Courtney. I was just kidding around. A bad joke. I’m sorry.”
“I’ll tell you one more thing. I’m not quitting. I need this job. When it comes time
for my next performance review, you’d better give me a good one. Because if you don’t --
and if you ever try anything with me ever again – I’ll file a sexual harassment case
against you so quick it’ll make your package fall right off. You got it?”
#
Harsh.
Judge me all you want, but I’m telling you I didn’t see that one coming. How did I
go so wrong? Since separating from my wife last year, everything had been going fine 
- 117
with the Dairy Queen. True, I told her the divorce might take awhile and I wasn’t quite
ready to think about marriage again. She understood. Also to my credit, I’d been faithful
to her. Generally. We’d been having a great time. Then out of left field –wham bam! A
boyfriend? How did it happen?
As much as I’d like to explore this issue, I really have no time to spare. There are
much more important and critical matters to consider on this strangest of days. But
where do I start?
#
I am stopped in the hallway by The Stranger. Handheld camera running, he
requests that I join him for a visit to the research librarian, who works in the “morgue,”
the windowless room where old newspapers go to die.
“In this scene, you’re beginning to suspect that Dollar Bill Buckstop is behind an
international cabal of evil intent,” he explains. “He plans to use Flouride9 to create the
world’s first privately owned and operated deity.”
“Who’s Dollar Bill Buckstop?”
“The Billionaire with the Insect Eyes.”
“The what?”
“Whoa on the questions, cowboy. We’ll shoot the back story later. OK, let’s have
quiet on the set.”
“What set? We’re standing in the hallway.”
“Scene 450, take one. And – action!”
#
We walk into the morgue, the scent of old yellowed newspaper clippings filling
the air. The Stranger powers up his Beulah, the magneto hum catching the attention of
Vera Mesa, the head researcher. She looks up from her work and smiles.
“Is it time for my scene already?” she asks.
“Yes, Vera, you’re in the limelight now,” The Stranger says. “Did you have any
luck?”
“Oh yes, there’s quite a bit of information out there on William Y. Buckstop.
Texan. Born in Strangers Rest. Did you know that at the end of the second earthly
conflict he brought home the concept of fluoridating municipal water supplies?”
I do not know.
“Oh yes, he had some sort of high level position at the Pentagon,” Vera explains,
“fighting malaria through a water purification program.”
“Part of the war effort,” The Stranger adds.
“And when the war was over,” she continues, “Mr. Buckstop went into the water
treatment business, founding the company that would become Ozona International.”
“I believe you’ll find that his first client was his own hometown, Strangers Rest.”
“Let’s see – yes, the most current update to ‘Who’s Who in American Industry’
indicates that he recently sold a controlling interest in Ozona to Amalgamated
Aquasystems LLC.”
I did not know this, either.
“You’re saying Ozona is owned by AmAqua?” I ask.
“That’s right,” Vera says. “And in turn, AmAqua is partially owned by Buckstop.
He’s got a 15 percent interest. And he holds a seat on the board. According to volume 46
of the ‘Anglo-American Cyclopaedia’ – ” She pauses to pick up the oversized reference 
- 118
book and read from a bookmarked page. “Yes, here it is. ‘Through a global network of
bottling plants and fluoride-based treatment systems, AmAqua owns more than two
dozen companies that control almost one third of the world’s potable water.’ ”
“Buckstop’s a big man,” The Stranger observes. “You control the world’s water,
you control the world.”
“I also found an SEC filing from last year,” Vera adds. “He acquired a 7 percent
interest in Summon Replisystems Inc. and led the spinoff of Summon Vision Systems,
which employs Fluoride9 in a patented onbeam visualization program.”
“Isn’t Summons the company that makes the artificial eyes?” I ask.
“That’s how Dollar Bill got his other nickname, ‘the Billionaire with the Insect
Eyes,’” The Stranger explains. “Three years ago, a lab accident with Fluoride9 destroyed
his retinas. A searing vision of the Son of the Deity. A programmer at Summons
Replisystems used onbean technology to create a set of electronic eyes for Buckstop. He
implanted a network of compound photoreceptors into the corneal tissue. So he has
compound vision, just like insects. That’s why Buckstop usually wears dark glasses, but
when he takes them off you can see that instead of an iris with pupil, each eye is actually
a grid of tiny metallic squares. Gives him a vaguely insect-like appearance.”
“Something of a visual irony, isn’t it? I mean, due to his financial commitments to
those who believe that extraterrestrial insects are poised to take over the world.”
“Oh, Buckstop is totally insane. He is the quintessential narcissistic CEO. As you
will learn in the climax, Buckstop is using Summons Replisystems and Fluoride9 to take
control of the onbeam infrastructure and stage a full blown corporate invasion of the
collective unconscious. His goal is to rule the world.”
“He still lives in Strangers Rest,” the librarian adds. “Buckstop’s bio in the
‘Communal List’ says he owns a 200-acre horse ranch just outside of town. And here –
no, this is surely wrong.”
“What?” I ask.
“An odd historical/meteorological cross reference. In the 1928-29 time frame, a
summer so cold that residents of Strangers Rest reported that the creeks and ponds froze
over.”
“That’s impossible.”
“Agreed. It’s surely wrong.”
#
Meeting time.
The “Year of” unveiling is being held across the street in the Mercantile Club
Building, one-time home of the city’s power elite. High ceilings, picture frame moldings,
arch-topped windows – it’s a sort of museum harking back to the days when the progeny
of the town’s founding fathers ran the city with a sure hand. Much of that power has
faded over time, but you wouldn’t guess it by looking at the Mercantile Club Building.
Stepping off the elevator, I am overwhelmed by the form of this tragic building
from an earlier time. I am here and somewhere else – with you.
Together we advance through the hallways, meeting rooms, colonnades. We take
in the form of this mournful mansion from an earlier time, this vast and magnificent
mansion. Mute rooms, where footsteps are lost…in sculpted berber so profound, so deep
that one perceives no step, as if the ear itself of him who advances once again. Oblique
hallways leading to deserted meeting rooms paneled in the baroque embellishments of an 
- 119
earlier time. Mute rooms, where footsteps are lost in sculpted berber so profound, so deep
that one perceives no step, as if the ear itself – Flagstones, over which I advance once
again, through the hallways, meeting rooms, colonnades, the form of this mournful
mansion from an earlier time, this vast and magnificent mansion where hallways without
end follow upon hallways. Mute, deserted. Enveloped in baroque embellishments.
Mahogany veneer, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, Carrara marble, dark glass,
obscure illustrations, Romanesque columns, sculptured thresholds, lines of doors,
colonnades, oblique hallways leading to deserted meeting rooms paneled in the baroque
embellishments of an earlier time. Mute rooms, where footsteps are lost in sculpted
berber so profound, so deep that one perceives no step, as if the ear itself were impossibly
remote – distant and remote from this numb, barren décor, far from this elaborate frieze
beneath the cornice with its branches and garlands like dead leaves. As if the floor were
still sand and gravel, or flagstones over which I advance one again too meet you, between
richly paneled walls, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, paintings, framed prints
amidst which I advance, among which I find myself already. Waiting for you.
#
I spot Jacob Elgin across the room.
A recent J-school grad hired for the Arlington bureau, he is admiring a large
Ming-like vase that resides in a glass display case.
“I didn’t realize the paper had this much money.”
“They’ve got plenty of money,” I say. “They’re printing $1,000 bills over there at
the south plant. That 30 percent federal subsidy keeps America’s family farms and daily
newspapers rolling along.”
As we reach the meeting room, I take hold of the gilded door knob and turn to
face the young reporter. “Your first all-newsroom staff meeting?”
“That’s right.”
“Then prepare yourself, Elgin.” I swing open the door and wave him inside with a
grand, overly dramatic sweep of forearm. “You shall never cast your eyes upon a more
repugnant lair of iniquity.”
#
“Come on in and grab some cookies,” urges a perky Metro type I have never
bothered to meet. She resembles a stereotypical Camp Bowie Socialite, but a decided
wannabe. Highlighted hair straight and shoulder length, outfitted in wrap skirts and
scoop-necked blouses from Harold’s. She keeps the keys to her sun-roofed Acura Integra
on a Louis Vutton key fob in a matching purse.
I move into the morass that swirls about the refreshment table, a frenzy of scuffed
knuckles and dirty cuticles laying waste to the perfectly arranged platters of cookies,
scooping them into pants pockets and purses for later consumption. Bottles of soft drinks
greedily snapped up, some opened and others stashed away. David sidles up next to me
and whispers in my ear.
“How many of them you think wash their hands after they go to the bathroom?”
he asks.
I nod, then judiciously select a shrink-wrapped tollhouse and a bottle of Dr
Pepper. We sit a respectable four rows from the back with the rest of the business news
department -- all but Business Editor Steve Harrison, that is. He sits on the front row,
busily glad handing with other department heads, his equals.
- 120
Steve Harrison tells people he manages a department of 18. But that count is
deceptively high. It includes two graphic artists, a part-timer who writes a couple of short
fillers a month and several long-time reporters who accomplish little more. Eight
reporters (mostly the younger members of the department) produced the bulk of the daily,
grind-’em-out stories. I used to take great pride in being one of those top producers,
writing a lot and turning it out fast. At least I hoped I was tops in quantity. Because,
clearly, the quality of my work impressed no one.
I have no awards to my credit. You doubt me? It’s true. No false humility here.
Not even a little in-house quarterly honorable mention to my name. My only satisfaction
is the possibility that my exile to the Attitude Adjustment Bureau is forcing the
department’s lower output writers to put forth a bit of extra effort.
“Okay everybody, find a seat and let’s get started,” instructs Courtney Labuge,
another Metro type. I don’t know her either (I’m actually rather unfriendly, it would
seem), but she is obviously a member of Libby’s inner circle. She often does the opening
monologue and is known to repeat all pertinent gossip to the executive editor. Pertinent is
defined as anything that casts Libby in an unflattering light.
“If you don’t have a cookie yet, get one,” Courtney pleads. “That’s why we
bought them for you.”
“What a kiss-up,” David whispers.
I have to agree. But I don’t think about that for long. Libby Wright is stepping up
to the podium.
The walls are bleeding again. Listening to one of Libby’s speeches tends to do
that to me. Seeking relief, I look out the window. It’s no better. Nazi paratroopers have
landed on Seventh Street. And there is the matter of my hand -- tiny white eggs on the
back of my hand are hatching into hungry wolf spiders, stripping the flesh from my
bones.
#
Turns out the rumors are correct. This is to be the Year of Race, after all. The
news does not appear to inspire Libby’s audience. The air boils with the odium of a
hundred odd stares. Abhorrence hangs in the air, a dirty fog so thick you can almost taste
it. Even Libby must realize it. Her voice is on verge of breaking up, of dissolving back
into the silent revulsion.
“I’m sure we’ll take some heat, but it’s a worthwhile topic and I know you’ll all
be willing to sweat it out,” she said, trying to sound brave and strong and ready to martyr
herself and the staff for The Deity and humanity.
“She’s insane,” David whispers. “I wish the Dallas Spectator would do another
one about her.”
“That story is old news.”
“Not to Libby. They say she talks about it constantly.”
Frustration with Libby’s editorship is so widespread and well known that word
made it all the way to the Dallas Spectator, an alternative weekly well known for the
adult ads in the classified section. Libby was their cover story. The piece even included a
short recap of an incident that involved one of my stories, a report on residential real
estate commissions.
Seems some local Realtors didn’t like what I had to say about the value of their
service. So Libby directed me to write another story, this one more complimentary. It was 
- 121
even suggested that I interview some of my critics, just to make sure they were suitably
appeased. How did the Dallas Spectator get the inside scoop on that one? I gave it to
them.
Off the record, of course. Only a few of the two dozen current and former staffers
interviewed for the story agreed to be quoted by name because, as one of them put it,
“I’m shaking with worry that Libby’s going to find out and fire me.” In the days before
the story was published, it was rumored that Libby had requested a long distance phone
log report so she could determine if any traitor had placed a call to the Dallas weekly. I
had no worry, though. The Spectator called me at home.
#
After a few minutes, Libby concludes her remarks and opens up the floor for
questions. Of course, the first one comes from Courtney.
“Libby, I know it’s a bit off subject, but a lot of people have been asking me what
they should do if they get a call, if they get offered a job by you-know-who, that paper to
the east.”
“Thank you for bringing that up,” Libby says. Courtney beams in butt-kissing
splendor. “I know some of you have been contacted by them, and I want you to know
we’re not mad at you for that. It’s not your fault. It would be sort of a compliment if it
wasn’t so pathetic.”
Her voice is stronger now, she has found her true passion. “The only appropriate
response is to tell them you are not interested in working for them, then immediately
report it to your supervisor. I want to be clear on this: Anyone of you who talks to the
competition about a job is in danger of losing your job here. If you want to talk to them,
you should go ahead and quit right here and now.”
She pauses for dramatic effect, then scans the room like a school teacher prepared
to chastise her potentially unruly charges.
“We’re in a newspaper war,” Libby continues. “There’s no room for divided
loyalties. You know, we’ve been real aggressive over the past couple of years with the
staff, clearing out all the dead wood and the people who don’t have a can-do, will-do
attitude. It’s not an accident that so many of them left. We made them leave. Some of you
joke about the government newspaper subsidy. You act as if it is a guarantee of success.
But that program alone can’t solve every problem facing our industry or this paper. The
truth is we just don’t have the room for a bunch of whiners and complainers.”
Suddenly, a voice from the back. “We quit.”
Everyone turns around. I can’t believe who I see. The Stranger. I didn’t even
know he was in the room.
“I’m sorry, but I don’t think I know you,” she replies. “Are you a reporter?”
He steps into the center aisle and shoots Libby a defiant stare. “I am The Stranger,
Version 2.0 of Mark Leach.”
The room is silent, bewildered. Libby looks at me, perplexed but with a hint of a
smile. “Mark, what’s this about?”
I open my mouth. Nothing comes out. My eyes bug slightly as I watch Guy Wint
rise from the front row and whisper something in Libby’s ear. Her face goes deadly
serious.
“Oh Mark, I’m so sorry,” she says. “I didn’t know. Your girlfriend dead – and the
old homeless man and the spunky dog, too?”
- 122
“What?” I ask. I look at Guy. He nods solemnly.
“I can’t imagine your pain,” Libby says. “But you know, maybe you should
exorcise this demon with a first person story. I know I speak for everyone here when I
say – ”
“Don’t talk to him,” The Stranger snaps. “I speak for Mark now. We’re the
world’s first two-bodied man. Nobody tells us who we can and can’t talk to.
Unfathomable, unprecedented.”
I stand up and move swiftly toward The Stranger. “My apologies for the
interruption,” I say, my powers of speech restored. “He doesn’t speak for me. He’s just
off his medication.”
Libby doesn’t hear me. She’s still looking at The Stranger. “But we’re in a
newspaper war,”’ she explains, almost apologetically.
I grab The Stranger by the arm, start pulling him towards the door. He digs his
heels into the plush Oriental carpeting, so profound, so deep.
“We will not fix your potatoes anymore,” he says. “Now, I shall obsess over your
psychotic edict.”
A tittering of anonymous laughter from the back half of the room, and The
Stranger is off.
“Here you are,” he continues, “top editor of one of the largest remaining
newspapers in Texas, safe and secure as the sole newspaper for half the county and the
overwhelming choice of the octogenarians who still actually bother to read newspapers.
You – actually, everyone at this paper -- insists at every opportunity that the staff of the
Register is putting out the superior product. Much better than the Sunrise Bulletin, right?
Yet it all belies a massive inferiority complex.”
There it is. My job is over, my career is through. After years of keeping my
thoughts buried, keeping myself safe, The Stranger has brought it all into the open,
shoved it in Libby’s face. She knows what I think of her now. I wonder: Will I be able to
collect unemployment?
But The Stranger is not done yet.
“Instead of combating feelings of inferiority by laboring to put out the best paper
possible for this market, though, you persist in fighting the Dallas demon on its own turf.
How many people in Tarrant County really care what happens in Irving? And yet a
simple word search of the database reveals that Irving is the second most common
dateline in this paper. Tesch, why so much out-of-county coverage?”
The surprised assistant business editor blinks his dark circled eyes at The Stranger
and stammers out a reply. “Because it’s – because Irving is home to Texas Stadium?”
“Well, that would be a good reason – if it were true. In fact, the reason Irving is
No. 2 on our hit parade is because the Dallas Sunrise Bulletin does not bother reporting
about Irving. So that makes it easy pickings for us, the scrappy little paper to the west.
Except that we don’t think of the Tarrant County Register as scrappy or little. No, things
have gotten so out of hand around here that our editors really believe the Register is as
big as the Sunrise Bulletin, even though anyone with an ounce of sense can see that the
Dallas paper is obviously larger with more staff and more readers. Well, congratulations
Libby. You’re holding your own against the other last remaining Dodo bird. While you
persist in thinking that the paper to the East is your competition, the truth is the real threat 
- 123
is onbeam news delivery and transdermal data transfers. And, of course, the death via old
age of your remaining readership.”
Much to his credit, Business Editor Steve Harrison attempts to salvage the
situation and save my professional skin.
“Sir, maybe we can take this offline later,” he says to The Stranger. “You’re not
an employee, and Mark has made it clear that you do not speak for him. That is correct,
isn’t it Mark?” Steve looks at me, prompting me with raised eyebrows and a nod.
All I have to do is nod my head in return, and my job will again be safe. My great
job. Back to late night meetings at Keller City Hall – or maybe, eventually, an exit from
the Attitude Adjustment Bureau to continue my coverage of real estate and stories about
the value of a full-commission real estate agent. And this is when I realize that my career
is already over.
“The Stranger is right,” I reply. “This story is now pointless. Gone now is my fear
of losing this job, this prison, a perjury. This story is already over. A few seconds more, it
has become frozen. You worry about market share, yet I offered this paper the greatest
scoop in 2,000 years – a first-person account of the pending End of the World. But no, all
you wanted was another story about a parrot that rides a remote control car. And I blame
you, Libby. It’s not all your fault, of course. I just don’t like you.”
#
Once in the hallway, The Stranger and I are all laughs and excitement as we high
five one another on the way to the elevators.
“You did it,” he says. “I can’t believe it. Did you see the look on her face?”
“I saw it,” I remark. “It was great.”
“I can’t believe she didn’t fire you on the spot.”
“Well, the day’s not over yet.”
“Don’t be so pessimistic. You don’t need to take this. We don’t need to take this.
Nobody tells us what newspaper we can and can’t talk to. This is America, and today you
became a real American. We can get a decent job even without a doctorate.”
“We’re the world’s first two bodied man.”
“And don’t worry about women. They’re going to love us.”
#
Elmo: Mark Leach has certainly taken a lot of heat for his heretical, non-literal
approach to The Revelation to John. To represent the other viewpoint we welcome the
Rev. Ida Purelife, a nationally syndicated televangelist and expert on the book of
Revelation and all things Rapture. Welcome, Reverend.
Rev. Purelife: Blessings from the Deity.
Charlie: You and many other Keepers of the Deity have certainly given Mark
Leach a lot of grief for his non-literal approach to The Revelation to John.
Rev. Purelife: If it’s in the Bible, then I believe it. Mark Leach does not. He only
believes in himself.
Elmo: Leach says he views this book as representing the transcendent world in
symbolic language. But in one scene that he chose not to include in the movie, he does
present a very well known scene in rigorously literal fashion.
Rev. Purelife: Yeah, I’d like to see that.
Charlie: Let’s roll the clip.
#
- 124
And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads; and on
its horns were ten crowns, and on its heads were profane names. And the beast that I saw
was like a leopard, its feet were like a bear’s, and its mouth was like a lion’s mouth. And
the dragon gave it his power and his throne and great authority.
The most powerful nations of the world responded to this challenge with fire and
sword. A principality of the union of many nations (aka “The United Nations/One World
Government”) rose up and attacked the beast with a Kutuzov rocket, delivering unto one
of its heads a seeming death-blow. But then its mortal wound was suddenly healed. In
amazement the whole earth followed the beast. They worshipped the dragon, for he had
given his authority to the beast, and they worshipped the beast, saying ‘Who is like the
beast, and who can fight against it?’ The beast was given a mouth uttering arrogant and
irreverent words. This was more than could be borne by the men of the Fighting 182nd
,
especially Col. Gerry “Zip” Uppum. “You can’t take out the devil’s creation with an
atheistic Slavophile rocket,” he explained. “This job requires a Deity-bless-America,
Uncle Sam-guided missile with nuclear-tipped warhead.” Then the men of the Fighting
182nd fired their weaponry into the heart of the beast, which exploded in a torrent of
blood and flesh, acrid smoke and volcanic radioactive fallout upon the sand of the
seashore. And the dragon was sore afraid.
#
Elmo: Care to share your thoughts on that?
Rev. Purelife: Godless liberal false once-created Worshipper of the Deity.
Charlie: But let’s be fair. Mark Leach himself said that in this scene he was only
trying to make a point, to indicate that one cannot in any way translate or interpret the
violent imagery of Revelation and still claim the high moral ground of an exclusively
literal approach. Doesn’t interpretation presume a metaphor?
Elmo: Agreed. And let us also consider this quote from his publicity packet –
“John’s spiritual view takes for granted that not only their tormenters but also the
Worshippers of the Deity, the true believers, are equal offenders. ‘We’ are not declared
offenders; ‘they’ are not disqualified from deliverance.” What do you say to that,
Reverend?
Rev. Purelife: I will pray for you – you and Charlie and Mark Leach and all of the
other godless liberals who pretend to be among the true, twice-created Worshippers of the
Deity.
Charlie: Actually, I’m Jewish.
Rev. Purelife: Start believing in the correct theology, become twice created and
perhaps you will yet escape the Lagoon of Flames.
Charlie: Interesting. And yet, if we read on we see that Mr. Leach notes that in
Revelation 21 the New Jerusalem has barricades and doorways that function as the outer
indicators, boundary lines to separate insiders from outsiders, yet the doors are never
closed. In other words, you can come and go as you like. Does that not sound as if
everyone is free to enter, not just the authentic, twice-created minority?
Rev. Purelife: Not at all. It’s the flame-filled, charred-flesh destruction of the
godless liberals and other bad, once-created people that makes the New Jerusalem such a
wonderfully spiritual place to live.
Elmo: In other words, if everyone could enter, then Heaven would be just as
wretched as Earth.
- 125
Rev. Purelife: His will be done.
#
- 126
#
And still we cannot begin our journey.
We are rounding up the last of our supplies - just minutes away from departure -
when Allison calls to report that her parents’ house has been burglarized.
“You need to get over there right now,” she insists, her shrill command barely
audible over the background wail of our inconsolable boys. “The next door neighbor has
already been there and they say the patio door is busted and we need to have someone
board it up. So you go home and get a hammer and--”
A hammer. Good idea. Glad she thought of it. Never mind that Allison has not
even the most basic of carpentry skills. Lack of expertise does not stop her from giving
detailed instructions.
“-- and write down what’s missing and call us,” she concludes.
“Shouldn’t you call the police first? I mean, for insurance purposes.”
“We already called. And they said we should just go there and see what’s missing.
This isn’t Kojak.”
This isn’t Kojak. Funny. If only every man could have a wife so funny. And so it
is that for the second time in as many hours, I say exactly what is on my mind.
“Fuck you.”
“What did you just say?”
“I think you know what I said.”
Silence on the line, the crystal-clear satellite linkup so quiet that for a moment I
think the connection must be dead. Then I hear her breathe.
“I’ve got to go to now,” she says quietly. “Are you going to board up the door or
not?”
“I’m going to board up the door. But I’m not going to fix your potatoes anymore.”
“What the fuck are you talking about?” she asks. “You never cook anything. You
never do anything. I have to do everything, I have to take care of everything. I had to do
all the clothes washing and packing before we left, I have to do everything here, too, and
I’ve got to start packing now to come back. And nobody ever helps me.”
“I’m sorry you haven’t enjoyed your vacation.”
“Just forget it,” she mutters and hangs up.
Love you, too.
#
In case you haven’t figured it out yet, Allison’s parents are rich. Of course, they
don’t think so. Although they live on one of the wealthiest streets in Dallas, they are
quick to point out that they are at the southern terminus of the “poor” end of the street,
the neighborhood of the regular millionaires. This is not too far off the mark.
A couple of miles to the south live the ultra rich, famous folks in their incredible
gated mansions and columned estates, like the $17 million replica of the White House
built by a vitamin billionaire. But as you head north, the houses get progressively smaller
and simpler. By the time you reach the northern terminus, even the bland McMansions
are a distant memory. All that’s left are 1960s suburban ranches. Really, they don’t look
much different from the house I grew up in blue-collar Duncanville.
Life is relatively normal here - so normal, in fact, that I must to stop briefly for
road construction. What an inconvenience the rich must endure. Plastic cones mark a carsize pit in the street. A man in an orange vest directs traffic with a matching orange flag. 
- 127
His partner leans on a shovel next to a giant mound of gravel. This is not the first time I
encounter such a mound. At one time, Allison and I live in a house on acreage. It is set
back off a country road, perhaps a state highway or farm-to-market road. There is some
repair work in progress; mounds of gravel have been dumped by the side of the road in
front of our house. I am concerned; the gravel has been dumped on graves.
A half dozen tombstones are arranged in a semicircle, with the end markers
closest to the road. I notice that a couple of them are partially covered by gravel. I am
disgusted that road crews would have so little regard for these graves as to simply see
them as a convenient, flat place to deposit their gravel. I am concerned that the markers
will be damaged. So I decide to move them back from the gravel. I will return the stones
to their graves after the gravel is gone.
Allison comes out to help me, but we are in immediate conflict. She picks up a
marker, then throws it down between the mound of gravel and the road. I tell her this is
not a good idea. The marker is too far away from the grave; we won't know where to put
it back.
“No, this is what the road crew is supposed to do,” she insists. “The graves won't
get lost.”
This is the way she wants it done. But I know it is a mistake.
Then I'm inside our house, and my wife sends me out to get onions at a produce
stand that is in our front yard near the graves. But first I am supposed to go to the house
across the street and pick up our sons.
Unlike our house, this one is set far back from the road. There is also a gully
between the road and the house, so part of the driveway is actually a bridge. As the
driveway leaves the bridge, it widens to forms a circle by the front door. I walk to the
house, and as I approach the front door another parent arrives by car to pick up their
child. I am not sure if the kids are here for day care, a party or just a play date.
I go inside the house, and it becomes my mother's home. I sit down with her in the
living room. I tell her I am going to be in trouble with Allison because I am taking too
long here, talking to her.
“The produce stand is going to close soon,” I explain. “I won't be able to get the
onions.”
My mother says this is really no loss.
“The onions there are not very good right now.”
I tell her I know that, but with Allison it is better not to argue. Just do whatever
she asks, no matter the outcome. Otherwise, she'll be angry.
"You know what she’s like," I say.
Then I realize that Allison is in the house, in the next room. She must surely have
heard me. Now I am feeling even more anxious because I know she won't like what I
have said. I can't believe I was so careless as to talk out loud about her.
Back on the driveway with the boys, we are ready to go home. But part of the
bridge is missing. The only way across the gully is a narrow beam about 10 feet long. I
can’t walk it; the beam is too narrow and the distance to the bottom of the gully is too
great. So I think about crawling down in the gully and walking through it and up the other
side. But this will take a long time and may be impossible because the sides are steep and
the gully is overgrown with weeds and brush.
- 128
As I contemplate the situation, I see that Allison is on the other end of the bridge.
I worry that she is going to be mad at me. I start to explain about the trouble with
crossing the bridge, but as I talk I realize that the bridge has become part of a kitchen.
There’s only 6 or 8 feet between us. The circular part of the driveway is now the kitchen
floor. And the house has become a counter and cabinets. It was, after all, only a visual
trick, a bit of smoke and mirrors as seen in some old fashioned paintings or cast in
ancient Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, trompe l’oeil capitals, false doors, false
columns, false perspectives.
I see that my excuse about the bridge will really sound like a stupid lie. I don’t
have to cross a narrow beam or crawl through a brush-choked gully to get home. All I
have to do is walk across the kitchen.
But as I explain what happened, I see that Allison isn't mad at all. She acts as if
my story makes perfect sense.
“It's so strange that you should have had such trouble,” she says.
She is smiling now. All is well.
#
Exotic, tropical-looking ferns and orchids wither in a dry breeze blowing in from
the field next door, the backyard of Dallas' most prestigious private girl's school,
Allison’s alma mater. The humidifier is still blowing, but to no effect. Jungle air escapes
through broken windows and French doors, swinging cockeyed from a splintered frame.
The late afternoon sun catches edges of the broken glass that litters the flagstone patio. I
slip in through the sunroom, or what Allison’s mother calls the “conservatory.”
My eyes fall on a small terra cotta pot that holds a flower of perhaps the most
brilliant purple I’ve ever seen. The blossom itself still looks robust enough, but the stem
and leaves that support it have collapsed into a dirty green mound resembling overcooked
spinach. I find a brass mister from the overturned gardening cart and give the plant a
quick shot. But instead of reviving it, the water causes the flower to immediately wilt into
a wad of wet crepe paper. Clearly, only the strong will survive. On to the master
bedroom.
Dresser drawers are open, contents scattered across the floor and a king size bed
made up in a fluffy, Ralph Lauren comforter with lace white pillows. No sign of a
jewelry box.
A quick check of the rest of the house reveals that that burglars zeroed in on the
predictable. The A/V electronics are missing from the family room, the portable TV from
the kitchen counter. The silver is missing from the bottom drawer of the china cabinet.
But the burglars left untouched some of the more valuable items, such as George’s
collection of antique golf clubs and Mrs. Astor’s 200-year-old blue china vase.
As I reach down to return an overturned chair to its proper place at the table, I
glance upside down through my legs and see the baby grand in the parlor, the only room
I’ve yet to check.
Although it is the most formal room in the house, the style is understated. The
piano, a couple of simple wing backs, a camelback love seat, equally simple end tables.
The exception is a giant painting that hangs above the piano opposite the picture window
that overlooks the circular drive. I have always found it to be a strange, unsettling picture,
sort of a modernistic interpretation of an old circus banner dominated by an intenselooking clown with eyes that seemed to follow you wherever you went. The first time I 
- 129
saw it I had to stifle the urge to laugh. Allison must have guessed what I was thinking,
because what she told me next instantly sobered me up.
“That’s a museum quality work,” she said. “They recently had it appraised at
$80,000.”
$80,000. I could not fathom such a princely sum for the picture – any picture that
you might hang in a normal, family home. It is worth almost as much as the house I grew
up in, a disparity I have never been able to forget. Besides, George wouldn’t let me.
A few weeks before the wedding, I hung around the house while Allison and her
mother were out shopping. Soaking in the elegance, enjoying the fragrance of money.
Then George - “daddy” as Allison still insisted on calling him - sat me down in an Italian
silk wingback for a little talk.
“The two of you may be happy together now, but I think both you and I know you
will never be rich,” George boomed in his ever confident, blowhard, Dartmouth way.
“I hadn’t thought about it.”
George sucked his teeth. “You wouldn’t.”
“Pardon?”
“I want to make sure you understand this: You will never get your hands on this
family’s money.”
“What?”
“Oh, I’ll always make sure my princess is taken care, and any grandkids.
Margaret is looking forward to a few those. But you - well, you won’t get your hands on
one thin dime.”
“OK.”
“Don’t be defensive. I’m just trying to be straight with you.”
“I can see that.”
“I don’t mean to sound cruel. It’s nothing personal against you, Mark. It’s about
family, my family and my responsibilities to it. Do you understand what I’m telling
you?”
“Yes sir, I understand.”
Sir. Even then, I couldn’t believe I’d actually said “sir” to that pompous, squashplaying Dartmouth bastard.
But instead of striking back, I had turned the other cheek. Or maybe I was just
afraid to fight, afraid I might lose Allison. Or maybe I was afraid of having a genuine
emotional encounter with another human being.
By the time I decided to talk it over with Allison (about six months after the
wedding), she had seemed almost hurt that I would attribute any ill intent to “daddy.”
“You must have misunderstood him,” she’d said.
I felt exactly like Clark Caring in the scene where he popped his head out of the
dark pantry.
#
The husband popped his head out of the dark pantry and asked of his wife
“where’s the bread?”
“There is no bread,” she replied. “We have no money for bread.”
“But how can that be? Look around us. Wealth everywhere. A leather sofa here, a
swimming pool there, berber carpet everywhere. What have you done with the bread?”
- 130
“You don’t make enough money to allow me to live in the style to which I deserve
to become accustomed. So how can you expect me to buy bread?”
“I’ll starve if you don’t give me some bread.”
“Husbands do not live by bread alone,” she said. Then she retrieved a knife from
the cupboard and motioned for her husband to place his hand on a scarred wooden
cutting board.
“Are you crazy?” he asked. “It’ll hurt!”
“Crybaby.”
Shrugging, the husband relented and she cut off his right hand.
“Why, that didn’t hurt at all,” the husband said. “Like cutting your hair or finger
nails.”
“That’s because you are already dead,” she explained, then handed him his
severed hand on an orange Fiesta platter. “Eat this.”
“Mmmm, that’s good cadaver,” he said.
“Yes, and you should try the wine.” The wife hoisted a small glass of red covertly
retrieved from the oozing stump of her husband’s wrist. “A rather disappointing rioja
with delusions of mystical revelations.”
“Now you’ve gone too far!” the husband roared. “There’s no call for religious
persecution. Why do you want to make me suffer?”
“Because it is only through suffering that we can find our redemption.” Then she
dug out a set of kebob skewers from the back of a drawer and nailed her husband to the
pantry door, bread crumbs and wine spilling from his stigmata.
Over the husband’s head, the wife tacked a recipe card upon which she’d written
“King of the Losers, signed wife.” She dotted the “ i” in wife with a smiley-faced heart.
#
You laugh. But let me tell you, this is no joke, no exaggeration. This was my
domestic life, the world of Clark Caring.
The previous evening, my beloved had complained that she was getting out her
fourth clean glass of the evening. It seems that each time she finished a drink of water,
she had been leaving the glass on the kitchen counter so it would be available for her
next drink. But "Somebody" kept putting her glasses in the dishwasher. In his defense,
Somebody said he didn't have any way to know that these unattended glasses should be
left out on the counter. He proposed a solution.
"You should use the striped glasses only. That way, I'll know to leave any striped
glasses alone."
"No. I don't like the striped glasses."
"OK, you can pick any type of glass you want, but you can only use that one kind.
You have to commit."
"No. That doesn't work for me."
"Ok, you can pick one glass and we'll write your name on it."
"No."
Turns out my beloved believes the problem is that Somebody was in some sort of
nervous state that night and kept straightening the kitchen more than usual. Normally,
Somebody is perfectly willing to leave dirty dishes lying about on the kitchen counter. But
not last night. No, Somebody was in a nervous state.
- 131
So yes, you might conclude that instead of failing in his usual way, Somebody
was failing in a new way. This is probably true. Therefore, Somebody parked his
melancholy butt on the sofa and watched a rerun of Battlestar Gallactica.
See, does that sound as if I was nervous? No, it does not. And to hell with any
damn glasses.
#
After detaching myself from the pantry door, I try go back onbeam to research
“The Voice of God.” But my beloved has other plans. First, she reminds me that dishes
must be washed. Next, Brian needs help with his language arts homework. We live in a
good school district, which means our children are given a lot of homework. The last
assignment isn’t completed until Brian’s bedtime at 9.
After Brian brushes his teeth and is tucked in for the night, I try once again to
plug in. When I am halfway to the portal, though, my beloved looks up from the notebook
in her lap.
“Where are you going onbeam at this hour?” she asks.
“I need to run an errand.”
“Why didn’t you run your errand during the day?”
“Well, I have to work.”
“Oh yeah, I wish I could do that, just focus on one thing at a time. But I have to
take Brian to and from school and take care of the house and do my writing – you know,
my job, my work. I have to do it all during the day, before you even get home. I guess
when you’re Clark Caring, though, all you have to do is go to work, then go home. That
must be nice. I wish I had a wife.”
#
The repair work doesn’t take long. A handful of nails, a few sheets of plywood -
nothing pretty, but it is functional. I put the tools back in the truck and go inside through
the garage to make the required call to Allison. But on my way to the phone, I feel drawn
to the study. I re-check the antique golf clubs.
George is quite proud of his collection, most of which date back to the 19th
century. They are wooden, of course, polished to a deep, rich glow like fine pieces of
furniture. He’s collected them during 20 years of travels to the world’s great golf courses.
Each club has a story that George is only too happy to tell visitors, even parasitic son-inlaws like me.
The golf clubs aren’t George’s only sports collectible. He also has a couple of old
squash racquets. He played on the team at Dartmouth. “Princess, I just can’t believe you
didn’t marry a squash player,” he is fond of saying, one of those jokes that’s not a joke. I
do not play sports. In fact, I abhor games of all kinds. I am too much the alien to
participate in genuine human activities.
The racquets hang on the wall, obviously more decor that serious collectible. But
the clubs -- George keeps them in special drawers he had built into the bottom of a
custom bookcase. The drawers are lined in green felt, and some have foam inserts
trimmed to nestle the rarest of the golf clubs in a bit of extra protection.
I reach into one of these custom inserts and extract a frail, toy-looking driver. It
has a handle wrapped in a thin, cracked leather so ancient and brittle it reminds me of
mummy wrappings. I grasp it in my usual awkward, non-athletic manner and take a 
- 132
swing at an imaginary golf ball. The big wooden head of the old club makes a barely
audible swish as it slices through the air on a floor-to-ceiling arc.
Suddenly, I flash on parenthood. During Allison’s first pregnancy, she had been
willing to engage in membrane penetration until the final weeks. But when I tried that
with number two, all I got was an angry, exasperated “I’m pregnant.” By the third
trimester, she was - well, she was who she was to become. You might say my “golfing”
days were over.
“You’re driving too close to the shoulder.”
“You’re driving too close to the center line.”
“‘You forgot the oregano.”
“You washed colored underwear with white underwear.”
“Can’t you do anything right?”
No, it seems I cannot.
I hold the club up at the apex of its arc and sight along the shaft. I pause for a
moment (“No oregano?”), then drop into a batter’s stance and swing the club against the
bookcase.
The handle makes a satisfying snap as it splinters, scattering a century of golfing
history across the berber carpet. I retrieve the head and write “Dartmouth sucks” across
the flat side with a ball point pen, bearing down hard to make sure the words are
permanently indented into the ancient wood.
A year after the birth of our second son, I had tried to talk to Allison about my
theory of our marital troubles. But it went no better than the talk about her father. No, she
had not been mad that day, she was not mad now and none of “my” problems could be
blamed on her.
She was probably right. A classic case of projection with persecutory
scapegoating. Besides, it is possible I am not even satisfactory in the practice of
membrane penetration. After all, I do want to be fair. But “daddy” has also suggested that
I am rather indecisive. So for his sake, I’m not going to be that today. I am acting on his
advice. I am making a decision and following through.
Gathering up an armful of clubs, I head for the living room and drop my load onto
the piano bench in a clattering heap, a clattering that fills this vast and magnificent room,
this mute, deserted meeting room. The walls and ceilings are enveloped in baroque
embellishments. Mahogany veneer, Venetian plaster, gold-leafed frames, Carrara marble.
Dark glass, obscure illustrations, Romanesque columns, sculptured thresholds, lines of
doors, colonnades…oblique hallways leading to deserted meeting rooms…paneled in the
baroque embellishments of an earlier time…Mute rooms, where footsteps are lost…in
sculpted berber so profound, so deep…that one perceives no step…as if the ear itself
were impossibly remote…distant and remote from this numb, barren décor…far from this
elaborate frieze beneath the cornice…with its branches and garlands …like dead
leaves…as if the floor were still sand and gravel, or flagstones…over which I advanced
one again… to meet you… between richly paneled walls…Venetian plaster, gold-leafed
frames, paintings…framed prints amidst which I advance.
#
Breaking the second club is not quite as satisfying as the first, but when I see that
my bad aim has inadvertently taken a nice-sized notch out of the piano leg my interest 
- 133
picks up considerably. Before I know it, I’ve broken every one, turning a half dozen clubs
into high-priced kindling and a black enameled piano leg into a scarred up looking femur.
Rather than soothing me, the destruction sets my blood to boiling. Now I am
ready to do some genuine damage. I go back to the truck for my hammer.
I lay into the piano, popping the ivory veneer off the keys with vast, swinging
blows. The century-old instrument cries out in a pained, atonal scherzo. As the music
reaches its crescendo, I turn my attention to the clown painting. Again and again I strike,
the claw end of the hammer ripping the canvas into thin strips and knocking chunks of
sheetrock out of the wall behind it. Pieces of crumbling gypsum fall inside the piano,
randomly striking the strings in a demented encore.
#
Afterwards, I pour myself a bourbon from a crystal decanter on the buffet. But I
never get to take a sip. In one of the facets cut into the leaded crystal I catch sight of a
movement, a flash of color and light. I spin around and see -- the alien.
#
Here’s one way the world ends: I am in bed with a woman. There is no adulterous
guilt, so presumably I am not married.
She is nude, lying on her stomach. She looks to be in her early 20s. I kiss her
back, which is dark tan. Then I leave.
As I walk out of her apartment building, I think about her desire that we have a
child together. But I realize that since we are not married it would be her child. I would
be sad because I would not be a part of the child's life.
Now I am on the street in front of her apartment. Oddly, this is the street in front
of my work. The apartment building is really my office. I begin walking north along the
curb on the east side of the street. There are bushes projecting into the street, forcing me
to walk around them into the street itself . There is someone else who is doing the same
and a third man who is helping him in some way. Perhaps this helper man is a city street
worker.
Then I find a hammer in the street.
I pick it up and lightly pound it in my left palm, like you might see a baseball
player idly play with a bat. I have already reached the signal light that is north of the
library and I have turned around and am heading back toward my office. But now I
realize it is not my work at all. This is the old sanctuary of First United Methodist Church
in Duncanville, and the street is Avenue C. I go inside, but it is not the church anymore. It
is a multi-use building that contains a restaurant, like one in a hotel.
I suddenly have a revelation: I am in a dream. That makes this a lucid dream,
something I haven’t experienced in years. There is a woman standing in front of me a
step to the right, within arm's reach. She is attractive, but I decide I will not act on base
desire. Instead, I walk past her, placing a hand on her arm as I pass. I tell myself that this
is my dream so I should let myself touch and experience it, control it - but not let my
passions control me.
I approach the old pulpit, which is now the hostess station. The hostess is friendly
and attractive. I remind myself that I am not going to engage in membrane penetration,
but I am so attracted to her that I take her face in my hands and kiss her. She is very
receptive. Lucidity is slipping away, back into the primordial night.
- 134
I notice a kitchen sink behind her. She steps aside. Vanishes. And I stand alone at
the sink. Should I wash my hands? I am not sure. I look at the sink, and along the back
splash I spot an old pair of shoes. They are a pair of brown loafers I owned in college. I
have not worn them in years because they needed work; the heels are worn down to the
cobblers nails. But as I look at the shoes I realize they have been repaired. The shoes are
still old, but have been given a new life. I am ready for the journey.
#
- 135
#
“We were somewhere around San Augustine in the heart of the Piney Woods
when the sacraments began to take hold,” The Stranger says.
He is screaming over the road noise, reading from a Reporters Notepad as we
speed through the moonlit East Texas night, enjoying a topless ride in a 1970 Cutlass
convertible.
“You mean mescal,” Jack says. "The sacraments are for later."
“Still, I feel a bit lightheaded,” The Stranger remarks. “Everything’s going black.”
“Maybe you could try taking off your shades,” I suggest.
“Soulless, cool sunglasses are an essential ingredient of the presentation.”
#
It is after 10 p.m. when we finally get on the road.
The Bryson’s ranch is about two hours west of Strangers Rest, and the foreman’s
wife has already stocked the refrigerator and pantry for our arrival. I am looking forward
to this trip. I think back to junior high, when Jack and I spent many weekends at the
Rocking B Ranch, mostly sitting beside the stock tank and taking turns shooting at turtles
with a .22 pistol.
The turtles were hard to spot. The opaque, jade green water concealed all but
those parts that actually broke the surface. Usually, that meant only the head, a tiny target
indeed for two inept shooters entrusted with the only non-hunting weapon on the
property. It didn’t matter. It was pleasant enough to just soak up the morning sunrise as it
fell across the rocky, earthen dam and listen to the crack of the little pistol as it echoed
across the pink- and purple-tinged limestone hills. The dads always took their hunting
way too serious, insisting that us boys only shoot at game animals that were in season. So
we’d just hide out at the tank and shoot turtles and sparrows and rabbits - anything that
just happened by and didn’t require any particular skill or patience to kill.
“Maybe if we electrified the pond, the turtles would all come up and we could
shoot ‘em,” Jack suggested one weekend. “We could use that old crank telephone my
granddad used to use to get bait worms to come up out of the ground.”
We tried it. Of course, it didn’t work. So instead, we caught a frog and hooked its
legs up to the phone leads. We really had it jumping.
At night, we’d hang out inside the knotty pine-paneled ranch house and tap on the
side of the big aquarium by the front door. Fang the rattlesnake had surprised many an
unsuspecting new arrival. It was there for the benefit of Bryson Development employees,
corporate customers and other high-flying types who could appreciate the kill-or-bekilled visual rumor of the ranch mascot.
Good times.
But somewhere on the outskirts of Mineral Wells it all goes bad.
The old highway takes an unexpected detour, orange traffic cones channeling us
down a road we’ve never seen. We pass a modern diesel locomotive engine parked next
to a long-abandoned railroad station, a crumbling, boarded-up relic from the age of
steam. But there are no tracks or cross ties; the engine sits directly on the gravel.
Within a few minutes we find ourselves hundreds of miles to the east, barreling
along the El Camino Real through the Sabine National Forest a few miles from the
Louisiana state line. Jack wants to turn back, but The Stranger stops him.
- 136
“This is all proceeding as anticipated,” he explains over the road noise. “We will
stay in the ancestral home. The landlady of the dead has already made out our beds.”
Jack is wary.
“A landlady of the dead,” he says. “Don’t much like the sound of it.”
“Well, be fair. The ghosts of 140 years of Leachs live in that old house.
Somebody’s got to look after them.”
So we roll on through the Piney Woods, drinking mescal and lime juice from a
circa 1950s red plaid coffee thermos and listening to a 20-year-old FM broadcast of Led
Zeppelin’s “Physical Graffitti” from a once-popular rock station that went off the air
years ago.
“Now we must switch over to public radio,” The Stranger says. “Magnetica is on
the air.”
“She’s got a radio show?” Jack asks.
“It’s called ‘Connotations and Consciousness with Magnetica O’Famously.’”
“She got a big following?” I ask.
“She’s quite popular.”
“I never liked her,” Jack says.
Truth be told, Magnetica never liked Jack, either.
#
Blessings – and apologies. It has been some time since I have spoken with you
over the airwaves. Why the delay? While recently visiting Maine – or rather Down East,
as the natives call it -- while visiting there to expend blessings with the relations of my
questionably gendered companion, I busied myself a bit too much with the annual prescience festival hurry. Cooking, shopping, decorations, mythic songs. The result of all
this rushing about was a nasty case of Pre-Science Festival Disorder – and a very
illuminating example of how to live in connotation and consciousness.
With cold compress upon my brow, I detected a noticeable degradation of my
usual gusto for living. No longer was I feeling disposed to engage in familiar, enjoyable
behaviors, such as grooming my mummified Egyptian cats. Paying notice to these simple
moments of our lives is the foundation stone of living in connotation and consciousness.
In modern times, cinema is the stone upon which we build our personal stories.
The epic film often provides good-looking scraps to masticate on and fill our mental
bellies. I just previewed a film that thoroughly satisfied my visionary hunger: ‘The
Penetrated Writer.’
This New York City-based tale tracks a Texas moviegoer whose film has broken
inside of him. Nothing is absent, and yet nothing works. There is a terrible, deadly secret.
And the usher hates him. No purging of painful memories here. This is the story of a man
in the final stages of youth, challenging his personal history and then at last moving on to
a whole new connotation and consciousness.
Movies inspire many such acts of clearness and bravery. Consider the protagonist
of “The Penetrated Writer.” He looks at the route his existence is following and prepares
himself for appropriate action when the DNA starts surging. Is that not the way it is for us
all?
This brings to mind an additional tasty decree from today’s movie menu, “The
Projectiles of Autumn: A True Story.” U.S. attorney general Bobby Kennedy advises his
embattled brother, “"play for the breaks.” What a daring instruction to the government 
- 137
official who dwells within all democratic citizens of Planet Earth. We fulfill this
command of destiny whenever we vote in favor of connotation and consciousness and
pursue the option to exist as the protagonist of our own novel tale.”
#
“Well, I guess this means we can all be famous radio personalities,” I remark. “I
am not overly impressed.”
Jack expresses his disdain more directly; he lets loose with a hearty, hilarious
belch.
“OK, I have another idea then,” The Stranger says. “I will read you a letter I
wrote for this very occasion.”
He squirms about, at last extracting a sheet of notebook paper from his back
pocket. He holds it down low out of the road wind, near a tiny green light that comes
from inside the rear ashtray. “It is addressed to Owl Creek Farm, Aspen, Colo.”
“Hunter S. Thompson,” Jack says. “The theme of our road trip.”
“Dear Mr. Thompson. Thank you so much for your books, enjoyably dogeared
before sitting so long neglected on my shelf. I was so depressed, horribly depressed,
depraved, deeply dead, as you can imagine. You’ve seen me on TV by now, I’m sure,
now that I am the butt of jokes on Letterman and Leno.”
“TV?” I ask, panic rising inside. “We haven’t been on TV. What are you talking
about?”
But The Stranger ignores me and keeps on reading.
“Rest assured, though, I’m not one of those sackcloth and ashes people. I’m not
like that. I am so overcome by the crowds of pilgrims, the TV news people and the haters.
I feel their feelings, fear their dreams, the terrible roar of errant nightmares floating into
my frontal cortex. Hands to my temples, I feel the skull beginning to crack. Enough.
Always wanted to be famous, of course. But for journalism, for writing. I wanted to be
you. Now I am Job, looking for solace, looking for answers. I reach for Gideon’s Bible
(stolen from a Motel 6, I believe), but my finger falls instead on the spine of ‘Fear and
Loathing.’ I start reading and haven’t stopped yet. It is such a wonderful escape, a return
to my youth, back when I wanted to be a doctor of Gonzo journalism and everything
seemed so right. I wanted to be just like you. How did I go so wrong? How did I forget to
act so harmlessly and happily depraved?”
“Maybe you didn’t jack off enough,” Jack suggests.
“Self loathing,” The Stranger continues, “a very ominous assignment - gross,
spastic slobbering, slumped over grappling with sad deadness. But now there is again
time to enjoy that delicious drag of blood leaving behind your words, scarred into my
brain, the words made flesh and neurons, Acapulco shirts testifying to my devotion. Do
you grasp that I maintain because of you? It’s so right to see wrong, I know, and yet so
predictably suburban to seek out this savage journey. Still, I thank you, I mutter to
myself, a poor bastard. Completely twisted, engulfed in darkness, I am caught up in a
quick burst of acceleration from the Belgian Heliowatts. Burn your houses down, you
sackcloth and ashes people. I make a note to myself: Search out the possibilities that once
were mine, before consigned to death in life.
“I must be vigilant. Stress factors send my destroyer heading east (I miss the old
you, Allison), where there is no hope for those without immunity from shame. My soul is 
- 138
in personal danger, my face a mask of pure fear. If not for your books, I might already
have gone the way of no communication.
“Oh Dr. Gonzo, I am a physical salute to this nation of guilty used car dealers,
bleeding from the palms over my letter to you as I watch myself mocked on the cathode
ray tubes. Now it’s all I am, the King Farouk of it all, odd media darling, unfortunate
bastard, screaming gibberish at myself behind wild red eyeballs. And the screaming in
my head, my raving and jabbering, a confession of Fear and Loathing with overtones of
extreme disbelief. No, this can’t be happening. I reached at first for the Deity, but my
finger fell instead on you, an appropriate companion for traveling the blacktop of
terminal psychosis, death with huge Detroit cars hurtling through the pit of dark anguish
within me.
“Dear doctor, I see myself swooping and screeching, hoping to alter the jokes and
deflect the pain away from me and my bewilderment. The turn is too tight; I swerve
sickeningly. Vibrations are getting nasty. Time to order a drink. Mescal with a side of
pure Gonzo, leeches on the go, so Vegas, so Hell’s Angels, a Hunter frenzy of rotten
flesh in which I am looking for answers, looking to maintain solace, following the pattern
of a comatose ego. A grim connection is formed. You are me. You, me. I reach again for
Gideon’s, but that drag of blood makes it hard to see like you, Dr. Gonzo, with those
special eyes of yours that burn so keenly, through this frenzy of autonomic pilgrims, the
gutless, screeching punks who convert me to photons and agate, the fear and loathing in
the dark place where my manic notions lie.
“If only I could leapfrog back in time, before these past few terrible years, avoid
the predictable pattern. Ah, a dream of wonderful escape, a return to my youth, back
when there was no screaming or fear. With the wife and kids out of town, there’s still
time to entertain such a fantasy. A specially prepared 1970 Cutlass convertible could
function as time machine – ”
“And it is, it is,” I say, caught up in the foolishness. “We are on the Pathway
now.”
“-- as a time machine, transporting me back into the form of an obsessed and
immature fan, riding that enjoyably fearful blacktop, hugging the double yellow line of
irreverent delight, a literary journey into myself, embracing my obsessions, my lusts. Jug
wine, oral sex.”
“Ah, let’s not get carried away,” Jack warns.
“Henious chemicals promise to screw it on, grease the face with a happy smile.
Now I am an unfortunate bastard, rendered so fashionable, caught up in the obligation to
be the story. But I am ready to fight back. With overtones of extreme Hunter-ism, my
finger searches out my alter Bible, your manifestos, swooping and screeching in a bright,
clear sky. You have given me hope. Now I am right with you.
“By no means am I all right, though. I am rendered so red, so blood stained and
dead, staring out through wild-blooded eyeballs and into a personal apocalypse. Your
words are raw materials for constructing a mask that hides the fear, blocking that terrible
roar in the brain. But there is no mask that blocks out the truth.
“Dear doctor, I thank you again for your books. It wouldn’t be too much, I think,
to want to be like you, like your type of famous. I could handle the fear, I think. But the
loathing! Overwhelmed by domestic shame, I passed these past few terrible years hiding
my face in trembling hands. But no more, thanks to you. My letter to Hunter S. 
- 139
Thompson. Yes, you are my alter ego. If only I had been more like you these past few
awful years, then maybe I wouldn’t be so much like me. Sincerely, Mark Leach.”
“Hell yes,” Jack says. “A fantastic salute to - to something. Pass me the thermos.”
“It is quite good,” I agree. “Though I’m still concerned about the TV part.”
“Don’t be. It’s part of an unfinished script I call ‘My letters to Hunter S.
Thompson and other tales of personal apocalypse’.”
#
As we near the state line, Jack turns the twisting, two-lane blacktop into a
racetrack, negotiating a 90 degree turn with a stylish shower of gravel, the fishtailing rear
end just missing a steel highway mile marker sign.
“Ah, good times,” I say. “Reminds me of a little day trip Allison and I took a few
years ago. We were so happy, enjoying our little day trip in the country. We explored the
treasures, the crafts, the deals. We even had sausage on a stick.”
“And then you had to ruin it,” The Stranger adds.
“Yes – yes, I did. As we passed that car on the two-lane blacktop, I told you it had
been too close to their bumper. I did not like it. And you just smiled. You smiled! It was
like you thought it was funny, no big deal. Then we saw the gas station. Do we need gas?
No -- no, you said. We'll just fill up as we're leaving. So, of course, I had to tell you that I
HATE THAT! Don't you know that by now, my dear one? I know you must know it
(how many times have I had to tell you?), so you must be doing it on purpose. First
passing the car, now not getting the gas. You are therefore odious. So you said, ‘OK,
we'll get it now.’ And then you set your mouth in that hard, cruel, unfortunate way of
yours, so much like a creature of the companion - a Coffin-Puntura. I always hate it that
you, Coffin-Puntura, are that hateful way. You are always digging our graves, ruining our
every nice thing. Why can't you be more like me? Why can't you just enjoy our happy
day?”
#
Allison was right. I was unable to enjoy our happy days.
But now I wonder –have things changed? Here I am, in the first night after
speaking my mind to my boss and my wife. Years of holding it, fearful of the destruction
that I was sure would occur if I expressed myself. So as it turns out, I should find that I
am afraid of nothing. I should find that I am happy – and, yes, I am happy. I am sure that
I am happy. I am happy unto death.
I am happy – happy, relaxed, clear headed. I happily breathe in deeply the Piney
Woods night, feel the cool, humid air filling up parts of my lungs that have been
collapsed for years due to a diaphragm that I never let fully relax. Even the darkness
seems not so dark anymore as I am traveling in a 1970 Cutlass convertible through the
moonlight, pulling in radio broadcasts from the Land of the Dead. I am fully on the
Pathway, fully about the journey.
We cross over the Toledo Bend Reservoir, dead ghost trees rising up out of
moonlit waves. We happily roll on through Many, the Sabine Parish seat, and back into
the night, flying past the Vault of the Deity. But this time all is as it should be. No
flooded basement, no old man with tidy facial hair retired in advance of death. It is just
plain old Trinity Baptist Church, a single vapor light illuminating the empty parking lot.
Perfection is slipping away – no, that’s not it. I’m happy. Happy. This time I even 
- 140
remember the turnoff for Fort Jesup. Minutes later, we turn up the drive to the ancestral
homestead.
“Cut off your headlights,” I say. “We don’t want to wake up my uncle. He lives in
the neighboring trailer.”
“Nobody’s there,” The Stranger explains. “They’re out of town, gone with the
church youth group to Missouri, to Silver Dollar City.”
Sure enough, no one is at home. No one, that is, but the dogs.
These canines are not normal, waking world creatures. They are door dogs. I read
all about them in “My Education,” William S. Burrough’s book of dreams: “A little black
dog follows him into the dining room. Yes, it followed his father just before he was
killed, thrown from a horse. Clear death omen.”
I advance up the dark, gravel driveway to the old family home. I see two green
lights on in the windows, like holiday décor. As I approach the porch I think about how I
may find ghosts when I go inside. (After all, this is where the dead Leachs of Sabine
Parish live.) Then I see a dog blocking my way. Upon closer inspection I see that the dog
is a sort of mountain lion, a yellow panther. It begins to circle me, and two other dogs
look on, horrid black curs. I have no weapon with which to protect myself. All I have at
hand is an inflated air mattress, which I keep between me and the lion. I want to defend
myself, but under the circumstances all I can really hope to do is not antagonize the
animal or its companions. I am outnumbered and alone. Where are Jack and The
Stranger? Will anyone come to my rescue? I move toward my uncle’s trailer house, but it
is inexplicably surrounded by barbed wire, a military encampment.
Then the animals are gone, and the party begins.
#
Sitting around a campfire, meeting with others. Lots of people. Where did they all
come from? There is a party going on, perhaps a family reunion. We are talking about
arranging services for learning and emotionally disabled children. I volunteer for one job.
At the same time, I absently run my fingers through the long hair of one of the beautiful
Solana twins, just arrived from my freshman year of college.
“They’re hot,” Jack whispers.
The twins tell me it is my job to draw their long golden hair into two straight,
untangled bundles. I am to bind each bundle with a single hair I must thread through a
silver sewing needle, which The Stranger supplies.
Jack smiles, watching me struggle with the needle in the flickering campfire light.
“You think you can do better?” I ask.
“No, it’s not that. You live in a very strange world.”
“Thanks to you.”
“Me?”
I explain how it all began that first night after Allison left, the night I went
onbeam with Jack’s gear.
“Movable Pro 890?” Jack asks. “Not mine. I only use full-service Frames.”
“You put it in my nightstand, remember?”
“I left you my old PrePak loaded with Frames 9.0 Pro.”
“You’re full of it.”
- 141
“No, he’s telling the truth,” The Stranger says. “In fact, there is no such thing as a
Movable Pro 890. What you experienced was a psychic suggestion implanted by agents
of Ozona’s black ops group at the direction of Buckstop.”
“A psychic suggestion?”
“Through Project Clockscan. It permits shadow operatives to enter your nocturnal
vision condition and implant suggestive thoughts, like a subliminal splice into a movie.”
“What do they have to gain?”
“You are a critical part of the clandestine scheme. This is all premeditated, the
next plot point in the script. This is the part of the story when you in fact experience a
true incredible revelation. You realize that you are indeed different, that you have been
set apart from the world for the sake of the world. Here in the dancing shadows and
ginger scarlet glow of the victor’s campfire you must see that a part of you is long gone.
In fact, the old ‘you’ is dead. The world looks different now. So you pull apart from the
rest of us, lose yourself in your own quiet thoughts.”
#
Who am I to argue with the premeditated life? I leave Jack with the needle and the
hair and the twins, and I go off in search of a quiet site away from the roar. I pick out a
desolate spot on the far side of the house, near where the old well used to be.
I look up at the heavens, see giant stars, ringed planets, crescent moons – a
multihued celestial display. The entire solar system – it looks so different now. I am so
amazed by this beautiful site that I decide to lie on my back on the ground for a better,
more leisurely look. There is some ground light, though, for the view is partially
obscured. And there is another dog. But this one is friendly. It wants to lick my face. I
squeeze my eyes shut and hold the animal at bay with my hand, touch its wet nose. When
I open my eyes again, I see Bellero Shield.
“It is pleasant,” the giant insect observes, “to have a friendly dog by your side
when you arrive in a new country.”
#
- 142
#
Visiting New York City.
This is alien territory for a native Texan, so perhaps it is forgivable that you do
not recall the origin of the movie ticket you hold in your hand. You feel that it was given
to you by a woman. But was she your wife? Or perhaps a girlfriend? You are not sure.
You walk to the movie theater through a twisting, snake-like corridor of pay
phones, water fountains and rest rooms (always walls, hallways) and emerge from the
cloaca onto a busy street. You see people leaving a building -- a school, a store, a theater?
-- and you think you recognize one of them as LeAnn Shedi, your high school sweetheart.
But it is not her. There is no one you know here.
You reflect that it is an unusual experience for me to be in New York City, a
stranger in a strange land. You feel that you now understand why so many immigrants to
Texas seem so pleased when they meet someone from the same place they came from.
(“Ah, New Hampshire. Yes, we all knew how to live there!”) It makes the world seem
smaller and friendlier, so they don’t feel so alone.
You proceed to the movie theater lobby, where you must deal with the usher. He
appears to be a black man, but he’s light skinned with stereotypical Anglo facial structure
and hair of indeterminate texture (because of a burr haircut). Really, he looks like a
younger version of you, but with a shadow across his face.
You immediately clash. He insists that you stand in a certain place. This Napolean
of the cineplex is in command, and you do not like it. You are irritated by his attitude,
which you judge as a sort of reverse discrimination. You have done nothing to him. Why
is he targeting you?
You retrieve the ticket from your pants pocket, where it has become waded into a
ball, almost as if it has been laundered. You try to place it in the usher’s hand. But there
are slips of paper and change mixed in. Using only one hand, you attempt to separate the
ticket from the pocket detritus and drop it into the usher’s palm. But he can’t see the
ticket; he thinks you are trying to put money in his hand.
“You have to buy your ticket at the window,” he says, clearly exasperated with
you.
Now you are righteously indignant. You triumphantly produce the ticket. But he
continues to assert his power, pointing to a stripe on the floor behind you.
“You must stand behind the stripe,” he explains.
So you take several exaggerated steps back, stopping at a sort of half wall.
“Is this good? You just tell me where you want me to stand.”
The usher ignores your sarcasm.
“Yes, that is sufficient,” he says, then moves on to deal with others who have
joined the line.
You see a black man in line in front of you, and you feel a bit embarrassed by
your treatment of the usher. But the black man is in a suit, clearly a businessman, a
professional. You reason he probably shares a bit of your irritation with this “Little
Napoleon” service person. You make eye contact, then nod toward the usher.
“That’s the price we pay to live in a free society,” you remark.
But the black businessman does not respond. He looks out the big glass wall at the
city. So you look, too. 
- 143
For the first time, you notice a contrast between the urban landscape and the
theater. It is an older suburban style theater, dating from the late ‘50s or ‘60s, one of the
first multiplexes, perhaps two screens -- a dead ringer for the old Richland Plaza theater
in Richland Hills, Texas. It is now a dollar movie house, doubly out of place in the highprice world of Manhattan.
At this point, you realize you are standing in line with Scott Paulson, a boyhood
friend.
“What are you doing here?” you ask.
We catch up on our lives, and he tells you he has just completed an MBA. You
share his excitement, and you genuinely congratulate him.
Scott and you went to Duncanville schools and SMU together. At your 20-year
high school reunion, he told you that SMU taught him to read and write. You thought he
was making a joke, then you realized that he was sincere. So it’s a bit of a surprise to find
that he has earned an advanced degree, something you don’t have. He is a master of the
business world. You are a master of no world.
Meanwhile, the usher has moved to a different part of the line, re-arranging
everyone. Scott and you talk about the movie. You are to see “The Nightmare Before
Christmas,” which you recall is a Tim Burton movie. You are not sure if you have seen it
before, so you are looking forward to it. And it’s only a dollar. You hope there is time to
get a soft drink. Then you realize, of course, there is plenty of time because they are not
even seating yet.
#
Five months after dreaming “The Nightmare Before Christmas,” I find myself
enjoying Christmas Eve with my family. And yet enjoying is not quite the right word. For
I am saddened by the evening TV news, a story about a lost boy presumed drowned at
Possum Kingdom Lake, about two hours west of Strangers Rest.
His father, who is legally blind, speaks to the rescuers, thanking them for all they
have done. The search involves roughly 200 to 300 volunteers, who comb the shoreline
and surrounding wilderness for two cold, miserable days.
Then we go to the 7 p.m. Christmas Eve service at church. The pastor tells a story
of the daughter of the innkeeper who turns away Mary and Joseph. She is sick, but the
proximity of the Christ child heals her. The pastor says we must hold the Christ child
next to our hearts, to heal ourselves.
We leave the church, but there is a minor family spat - someone is unhappy
(probably me) about something vague and unimportant. We drive around looking at
Christmas lights, but I do not feel festive. The lights give off a horrid glow.
Standing in a lake, water up to my waist. I walk behind a motor boat, which is
slowly turning from side to side as it tows a baby in a small inflatable. I am staying
within arms reach of the baby, watching the rope as it curves around when the boat turns.
Suddenly I realize the baby is gone. Somehow it has fallen out, and I can't find it.
It must have sunk to the bottom.
I am frantically searching, then I go to the shore. There is a picnic, and many
people are sitting on blankets or playing ball. I call for everyone to jump in, to join in the
search.
"Don't worry about a swim suit," I say. "Get in now, in your clothes."
- 144
We all spread out, walking side by side across the lake bottom in hopes of finding
the missing baby. Perhaps there is still time to save it. I come to a place where the waters
have receded, leaving behind a muddy, dead bottom. There is a tarp or covering of some
sort. I lift it up and find a man and woman underneath. The woman is dark skinned; I do
not notice the man. She smiles at me. There are people all around. I realize we have
stumbled upon this couple in some sort of compromising position, something sexual.
The scene changes, and I am inside a nearby building or home, and a couple of
people are at a dining table. The baby is still on my mind. Did we find him? Is he OK?
I demand an answer: What has happened to the Son of the Deity?
#
Elmo: Pretty. New York City is an ideal visual rumor of alien terrain. But please,
no more attempts at Gonzo.
Charlie: Besides, we don’t need it. With a little nudge this quirky film could go
totally box office lesbian, the blind seducing the book. Revelation describes a repeating
inner something – you know, I don’t know what we’re talking about anymore with this
biblical crap. Let’s just start shooting.
Elmo: But seriously. The Stranger waves his arms. Rococo intrigue and animal
lust blend together, membrane penetration in a Louisiana hog pen, a beautiful dream.
Charlie: And he totally missed the opportunity offered by the arrival of the Solana
twins. It could have been as it was that college night of old, hiding in the back bedroom,
fingertips enjoyably extracting an inverted nipple – damn! – and exploring forbidden lacy
underwear saturated in hot virginal ectoplasm.
Elmo: Or show how revelation describes the Deity, who also destroys. Do not
tempt it. But always he was drawn to it. His light. We long to hear the quiet, still, big,
glimmering complex of extraterrestrial insects caught from the perfect mixture of the
young seer. In fact, he cannot fully dream. For months now.
Charlie: You are small for enjoying such an awful dream.
Elmo: Acknowledged, Mr. Lacy Underwear. And yet, it’s real.
Charlie: Rococo intrigue and animals seem to be the ongoing value of this script
of the death thoughts that trouble him. Here, The Stranger showed what it is to create a
reborn lesbian, the blind seducing to communicate with man through dreams of
exceptional “worseness,” the same since the plethora of bending over for the well-oiled
cam and screaming – well, perhaps there is a sub-market for that one.
Elmo: His destiny is with – and must be about -- him. It is this that troubles him.
He is one with the cinema. Ah, and this one, a beautiful dream, an incredible revelation.
Show me that he had a dream, a cliche cramming contest, and we’ll move on. He tried to
ignore that Christendom was a failure. This is bad. Failures must be acknowledged. Any
Zeta-Jones in membrane-hugging spandex, a sick bastard engaging this shopping mall
with no soul. We are small for humping it, the delicious silky femur. So much truth, he –
Mark – is the prototype, a metaphor for when the “voice of God” speaks. Diaz also enters
a cliche cramming contest of the psyche. Give her the well-oiled cam. And God.
Charlie: Let’s roll the clip.
#
I find myself inside the command module, a clinical, domed room off a metallic
hallway, a sleek 1950s B-movie set consisting of a curved corridor of polished metal, 
- 145
assorted German signage – “Actung!” – in a decidedly Luftwaffe font and the ubiquitous
cloud and lightening bolt logo of Ozona International.
The Stranger is here, too, strapped to an operating table. But he’s not The
Stranger of recent days. This one appears to be The Stranger of my original dream, an
old, worn out man with wrinkled hands and a thick cardigan sweater. The sweater is open
and so is the shirt beneath it, revealing a bony chest covered in silver hair and a nest of
wired electrodes. His eyes are open – open and dead, staring at the ceiling of polished
metal conduits.
“What’s wrong?” I ask. “Are you all right?”
He doesn’t answer.
Above The Stranger’s head spins the lighted, arm-like device wielding the
piercing instruments of surgical steel. Beyond him, I see Cinnamon and Corvette. But all
is not well. They are nude, frozen inside separate glass enclosures the size of coffins.
Beyond them, I see another coffin of ice and another frozen nude. Inside, a familiar face -
- Jack Bryson, eyes wide open and lips stitched together in a silent scream.
And in the middle of it all, hand resting casually on a crate of glass vials, stands
the mad scientist himself, star of the Society of the Purple Sunset – the sinister Dr.
Adolfo Morel.
"Had quite a time rounding up all of your assorted personalities," he says. "Over
the years you've split into an incredible number of pieces. You’re amazingly fragmented,
even for a visionary neurotic."
“So you killed them.”
“Your friends have been dead for years, them and all the people of this final, dead
age. Didn’t you know?”
“You killed them.”
“Nothing so melodramatic. They’re in suspended animation, in cold storage for
the re-integration process.”
“What?”
“Submerged ice. We got the technology from one of the aerial clocks being
studied at Area 51. Did the same thing with Hitler.”
“And what are those?” I ask, pointing to a line of jars on a high shelf above Jack.
Dr. Morel casts a mischievous glance my way. “What do you think they are?”
They are a nightmarish abomination. Each jar appears to contain human fetus. But
the fetuses have all gone horribly wrong. There is a mix of fiendish deformities, ranging
from lobster claws to exoskeletal protrusions to angel wings.
“OK, I know what you’re thinking,” Morel says. “And you’re right. We took a
few liberties, skirted the old genetic taboos. Aren't we all kin, really? But it was all for
science. Cutting edge work I tell you. And you were the model.”
“Me?”
“Look at this one,” he remarks, pointing to the nearest jar. “A genuine flippered
anxiety disorder. Over here, a web-footed phobia. And last week, a break through in the
study of mystical psychosis: Cicada wings! Tiny little protrusions anchored by tendons to
the clavicles. Talk about visionary transformation. Eventually, we'll get one we don't
have to euthanize.”
Despite my best efforts, the room begins to blur. A tear forms in the corner of one
eye. My gaze falls on the crate of glass vials.
- 146
“And this is the Fluoride 9," he says. "Or rather, it is a new and improved
formula. Perhaps a better name would be Liquid Jesus. It will be introduced into the
atmosphere in Strangers Rest at the sunrise service, setting off a global mystical
experience with psychotic features, paving the way for the rise of the world’s first
privately owned and operated deity. And the man behind the god will be – well, let’s ask
The Stranger.”
Morel fiddles with a knob on the arm-like device. A long flexible needle-like
conduit of glinting metal snakes toward The Stranger, settling on his abdomen and
piercing his navel. His eyes pop open like a vampire at sunset.
“All-encompassing scan of the gorge of time,” The Stranger intones. “Azure
gloom congregating in a gemstone cranium of ethereal vapors, rumble clatters over the
chasm, the outer dramatization of inner conflicts, luminaries glowing transparent and
emerald, the cool of unfilled liberty in motionless midday passion –”
“Regressive hypnosis,” Morel explains. “Turns out the Cicadians really are split
off from his – that is, from your – unconscious realm. Listen to him. It’s almost poetic.”
“The unexpected end of supernatural analysis, one street over from fair-haired
exasperation, noise of organized irrigation, royal crop hierarchy, vegetative brood
scraping fragile creature gluttony, ladled out by a charcoal-skinned giant spewing blond
sparks, creating a work of art composed of angel shells, mutated frogs and mounds of
aquatic fillets within a pond viewed in the dim steaming dusk. Broad greasy murmur
reddened brilliant crimson and reduced to the vapor of a pungent ruttish creature, a stink
so serious you might observe it traveling from devastated bones in the lilac fog of an aged
DNA delivery organ lost in erected liberties. Pessimistic, the versatility of heaving
dismay. Antiquated wickedness of pestered marshes, countenance fires gleaming in a
bright childish grin. His smile tears the heavens and weakens into a huge gemstone
cranium of brilliance, illuminating the bankrupt municipalities and hopeless sceneries of
a deceased earth, the glow forever diminished as the luminaries travel out one after the
next. The outer dramatization of inner conflicts, helping Buckstop take over the world.”
Dr. Morel touches the knob, and The Stranger is silent again.
“He can really gas on,” Morel says.
“What have you done to him?”
“Me? That’s what he’s really like – what you’re really like. Didn’t you know?”
#
Charlie: And the film's effect – bomb. Together. Creepy? That’s the ticket. It
leaves everything to cliché. We’ll move up that way, into the known. In ancient times,
men seemed to be right. A direct encounter with a specially prepared fish (i.e., tell Joseph
to take Mary to a hotel with no rooms). This is your time to freely incorporate the
unconscious, a figurative land of humility.
Elmo: Dead is bad. Someday, everyone will look like car boom fatalities. Bent,
but a nightmare of three, an angle of the storied boredom of genius, personified by
childhood. What of the idea of what happens a day away from Christendom? The fish
will bring him back. Pretty?
Charlie: Awful. It’s a recipe for the stale. Christendom dreams, freely
incorporating the unexplained halves and a nonpareil feast of visual storytelling brings
me. Dreams are radio transmissions from the unknown Deity. I simultaneously accept 
- 147
that the basement slumber incorporates this one in an overgrown cemetery of the
unconscious. I reveal myself in a message.
Elmo: What is this ‘I’ stuff? This is not your film festival. This is Mark Leach’s
night.
Charlie: And it is not a funny night, this final period of darkness before the dawn
of the End of the World. Boring, see? Help me help him save the picture. It is in me.
Elmo: Hey, I’ve got a few ideas, too. Boom! Freud meets The Organized Bad
Guys. The slapstick blast of low brow dream-making is now Hollywood bound, suffering
in the idea. Slowly, gently, turn the corners to an army of scum-sucking Barneys. They
have written my life to be funny, of the U.S. dead that God felt compelled to tell. I have
found it useful to no longer deny the world fish (i.e., a visual rumor of the Son of the
Deity).
Charlie: Interesting. A direct encounter with prayerful thought. Hermaphroditus
as the prototype for the 21st century prophet.
Elmo: Now you’re talking. Go lesbian, the blind seducing this terrified, delighted,
languid to be.
Charlie: Humping you for the borrowed inspiration from this pseudodocumentary. “Singing monkey!” shouts Cuba, then destroys it all. No, his world is dead,
a land of creatures who glisten in a walk conducted on knuckles.
Elmo: Enough Darwin. Instead, let us recall the rotting flag and find “Next Year
at Marienbad” to be the most evil film ever. Even the book world in these dreams is dead,
a world mystery without a world. Or a mystery. People getting together for a laugh in a
tub of buttered DNA.
Charlie: Ooooh. What clock spring winds up that idea?
Elmo: The end dream, a flag, the Church.
Charlie: Enough. Let’s buy cool sunglasses, pile into the Cutlass, zoom through a
dream cinema of Piney Woods darkness. People are enraged, and yet Mark could not
look to the tales of Joseph and Daniel for a story about life. That’s because his life is dead
and his world a mutation, drowning in the flooded basement. The nightmare of three
hours of dreary End of the World underwater -- well, perhaps I shouldn’t say more.
Elmo: Agreed. This is a god-awful dream.
Elmo: Yes, but by design. Claw hammer, broken plastic and semiconductors,
river of violence, a mean-spirited spousal corpse at the end of a classy full frontal “no” of
an ‘80s nightmare. It’s a story of rage.
Charlie: The story has its own image and is equivalent with the Deity. The goal is
to become perfect, to control and make ourselves carefree – especially about money,
again and again. And for those of us that ego would eat, I offer the helpless rage of one
who has attempted to help you forget your rage.
Elmo: And it was out of that perfection of rage that we saw failures that
constantly informed us to become perfect. But perfect in suggestion is not food but
fluoride.
Charlie: (Uncontrolled laughter)
Elmo: Stop laughing, damn you. I take my mental hygiene seriously. I think after
brushing, rage is defeated. The world wins over our achievement.
Charlie: (More laughter)
- 148
Elmo: Listen up, damn you all to hell. This information can help you. Dental
psychiatry. It is about our teeth, the rage – the fluoride. Our own human utter failure
would deify anger, and it makes us go the way of a childish character.
Charlie: You know, maybe it’s the only way we fail. Profound rage equals
outward success. To me, depression is the eye to hopelessness, to a way to transcend our
humanity. It is this depression and our inner critic that informs us.
Elmo: Exactly. Calcium fluoride makes knowledge – it makes this to transcend
the anger, to go the way of our humanity. We attempt to search the ego precisely for the
cure for what is ailing us. Buckstop’s toothpaste with Fluoride9, also known as Liquid
Jesus, is about that search. We fail and fall, repeatedly, then through this psychiatric
dentifrice we can at last secure our deliverance.
Charlie: Four out of five dental psychiatrists suggest toothpaste for their
depressed patients.
Elmo: I suggest a recast myth. Action, prayerful thought, bludgeoning of a pair of
hot lacy ectoplasm-soaked underwear and an inverted nipple that can only complain of –
Charlie: Careful now. You are god awful for engaging in such a sick eroto-slasher
flick. A hammer demon cannot be the Deity.
Elmo: Careful yourself. And enough talking. Time you helped it along with a
little bend-over action. My well-oiled cam is ready to expel warm globs of ectoplasm into
a willing orifice.
Charlie: Thanks for the offer, but I prefer to shower alone.